# Eberron 5: "A Shadow Lurks within the Flame"

***RECAP***

*Previously in Eberron, in an ongoing pursuit of the rogue Dark Lantern Agent Lucan Stellos, you find yourselves in the holy city of Flamekeep. So far you have successfully gathered information on Lucan Stellos as well as the weapon commonly known as the Soul Blade, which you've learned was forged in Korth for Karrnathi armies during the Great War through impressing demonic souls of Khyber into the weapons. During the voyage, you also derived information from Roewyn Atalast who spoke of an artifact possibly located in Q'barra, rumored to control dragons. In the central courtyard just outside the Grand Cathedral of the Silver Flame, you witnessed the attempted execution of 9 shifters in honor of Victor's Day. As the central figure transformed into a lycanthropic beast, you intervened. Elazra, in hopes of protecting the cursed woman, psychically ensnaring the guards, dazing them with hypnotic fey lights. Snorri breaking his peace-tied weapon, set out to destroy the beast, protecting the public. As the lycanthrope breathed her last, Fangli wrestled the beast down to its demise. In an attempt to escape potential imprisonment, Elazra vanished in a phase of mist, concealing herself from sight of the guards. Corrine swiftly jumped on her gryphon ascending with Snorri and Krogg into the Thranish skies while Elazra and Syndra sought out a hiding place, finding the Oasis Inn. Meanwhile, Fangli and Darwin met with Father Augustine, Bishop of International Affairs. Agosto granted you a form to be signed by the High Cardinal requesting for reinforcement in the Demon Wastes. Reflecting on the family name Towger, Agosto paused for a moment, his eyes flashing a silver light. Suddenly gasping to catch a breath of air, his veins coursed a maleficent shade. Just as the memory of the aged priest magically returned, he passed. Darwin, quick to respond, enchanted the body with a spell of preservation with the intent of timely resurrection and the duo traversed the halls into inner sanctum of the Cathedral to meet with the High Cardinal himself, who quickly dismissed them but first granted them the components as petitioned, despite their untimely and irrelevant request.*

Fangli and Darwin

*Standing before you is a silver-bearded warrior leaning on a massive dwarven war axe. His bejeweled eye-patch catches your attention, gleaming brightly as though a thousand everbright lanterns. A simple platinum pin clasps the dwarf's flowing purple cloak at his left shoulder.* *Behind him, a woman who can only be described as breathtaking. Blonde curls spill over shapely shoulders falling nearly to her waist, while eyes like Siberys shards set in alabastar studies you intently from within a perfectly-sculpted face. A soft glamerweave gown dances with shifting shades of purple and clung in all the right places, while a pendant of lavender mourn-lode sparkles provocatively from within the confines of her cleavage. Even her amused smile seems lovely, formed by sun-kissed rose lips.*

*"Look at 'em, shaking in their boots!" The Lady herself also laughs, "I'm surprised he even gave you three minutes of his time, let alone funding, what was it? A resurrection?", her bodyguard comments. A very much hurried halfling quickly follows you out the door. "I'm sorry. The High Cardinal is not feeling particularly locquatious today. Now then, what exactly were those components you needed?... *takes a note* excellent, we should have that together for you by tomorrow, just need to get to the bank to make the withdrawal and of course, to get Cardinal Krozen's sign off."*

*Two small shadows cast on the walls as you ascend the steps of the Cathedral inner sanctum. You hear childlike voices whispering to one another, but even still their words echo down the halls. "Is that THEM?!". "Probably. What are you, scared? We have a job to do, Emiline." "But... they're so weird looking... what if they eat us?" "Shh. Here they come." Coming into the light now, you see two children, one with pale light brown hair in two braids, with droopy-looking eyebrows and eye corners. The other has straw-colored hair in a short cut, with his two eyes accented upwards. His expression is resolute, yet somewhat gleeful despite the moody atmosphere. They are both wearing ink-black uniforms with green belts, short-swords sheathed and attached at the waist, close to the length of a dagger with a grip made of reddish wood. The girl speaks up first, very timidly, she barely makes out "Are you the intruders?" The boy looks back at her, glaringly. "Um - What my sister means to say is, you're not from around here are you? Why are you here? Why is nobody with you? ... I'm Thomas and this is Emiline. Come with us... We're gonna show you where everything is, silly! You can't just walk around with no supervision." The last bit of what he said he seems to have either rehearsed several times, or more likely is repeating what he's been scolded with before. Thomas get aheads of you and starts valiantly walking up the stairs confidently while Emiline follows behind you, watching suspiciously with concern. (PC 15), You can hear her muttering something, almost as if chanting). Just as you walk past the stained glass mysterium shining light into the dark hallway, out of sight of anyone inside the sanctum, your vision is suddenly obscured. You find yourselves staring into total darkness.* **Roll Initiative.**

Corrine, Snorri and Krogg

Question: how close are you to the Lyrandar Docking Tower?

```
Airship Docking Port. The airship docking port is a single room that occupies the entire top floor of Lyrandar Tower. The walls of this massive chamber are 30 feet high, and the domed ceiling rises to dizzying heights. Four lifts located in the center of the room allow easy access to the docking port from the levels below. Two massive, 20-foot-high doors pierce each of the four walls. Each door opens inward to reveal a balcony from which hangs a massive, fork-shaped dock. The balcony doors are normally kept open, regardless of the weather. A permanent magical field keeps out the chill wind while allowing passengers to enter and exit their ships. Massive blue banners stitched with the Lyrandar Kraken crest hang from the sides of the tower.

Each balcony is equipped with a powerful light housed in a compact light station. Powered by a lead sphere bearing a permanent daylight spell, the light is backed by a concave mirror that reflects the light outward. The operator of each small light station scans the sky for approaching airships. When its dock is available, the station acknowledges a ship by maintaining the light on its sails for several seconds. Upon receiving this signal, the airship glides in beside the balcony from which the signal originated. After tying the ship into place, the attendants drop a ramp from its deck so that passengers can embark or disembark. The ship remains airborne at all times, even while docked. The ring of fire encircling the airship is safely beyond the reach of the dock, so it poses no hazard to people standing there, or to the structure itself. In addition, each balcony is equipped for skycoach docking. Skycoaches often approach the balconies when their drivers see approaching airships, then wait there for disembarking passengers who want a quick ride to another part of the city. Such convenience usually costs up to double the going rate for such services.

Although the tower has eight docking ports, only four are currently in use — two for arrivals and two for departures. Hundreds of shuffling people—most of them standing in long lines—are waiting to board the next airship. Along the north and south walls are two large areas filled with chairs. Together, these lounges provide seating for more than five hundred people. Refreshments, such as fruits and water, are also served on tables free of charge to the waiting travelers. No fewer than twenty guards appear to be patrolling. Two fighters wearing armor under their robes and a wizard wearing austere gray robes and goggles of detect magic are stationed at each airship gate. This group is charged with spotting any dangerous magic devices that embarking passengers are attempting to bring aboard the ship.

Large chains drop from this docking ports, supporting extensions of interconnected wooden platforms several floors below. An extensive dark green banner hangs on a wooden stave erected from the structure. As the banner flattens its wave for a moment, you can make out the image of a tan-brown hippogryph encircled by viridescent treelike vines and vegetation (you recognize this as the crest of House Vadalis). A silver flame templar with wavy brown locks of hair, fitted in chains and metal shoulder pads and holding his helmet at his waist gazes out into the night sky. Just behind him, from this distance appears what looks like a scarlet dragon. Piercing sapphire eyes sit gracefully within the creature's hard, thorny skull, which gives the creature a threatening appearance. The wings are almost angel-like, a specialized layer of skin is all that's visible inside and sharp hooks grow from the endings of each bone. Its claws are infused into its boney wings. 

```

Among the skycoaches sustained in the air awaiting docking, you spy a familiar vessel and looking bored and *very* impatient, a woman dressed in dark Aundarian leathers with long reddish blonde hair appears to be restrained by thick ropes to the mast. A taller humanoid figure juxtaposes her and appears to be carrying a sackcloth. As you fly closer, you can see beside him, a smaller humanoid figure appears to be holding a hammer and nails. "Now then, ye're gonna be a good wee lass 'n nah make any noises. Nah one wee peep. Savvy?"

Up close, the humanoid shadows take shape. A large half-orc and hobgoblins. Spanning across their half-plate armor is the symbol of a creeping green flame in the shape of a claw. (HIST 15, Order of the Emerald Claw).

---

**Recap**

*Previously in Eberron, in an ongoing pursuit of the rogue Dark Lantern Agent Lucan Stellos, you find yourselves in the holy city of Flamekeep. So far you have successfully gathered information on Lucan Stellos as well as the weapon commonly known as the Soul Blade, which you've learned was forged in Korth for Karrnathi armies during the Great War through impressing demonic souls of Khyber into the weapons. During the voyage, you also derived information from Roewyn Atalast who spoke of an artifact possibly located in Q'barra, rumored to control dragons. In the central courtyard just outside the Grand Cathedral of the Silver Flame, you witnessed the attempted execution of 9 shifters in honor of Victor's Day. As the central figure transformed into a lycanthropic beast, you intervened. Elazra, in hopes of protecting the cursed woman, psychically ensnaring the guards, dazing them with hypnotic fey lights. As the lycanthrope breathed her last, Fangli wrestled the beast down to its demise. In an attempt to escape potential imprisonment, Elazra vanished in a phase of mist, concealing herself from sight of the guards. Corrine swiftly jumped on her gryphon ascending with Snorri and Krogg into the Thranish skies while Elazra and Syndra sought out a hiding place, finding the Oasis Inn. Taking on a disguise, the eladrin roamed the city streets, finding a drunken Roewyn and his bodyguard. On the way to the Lyrandar Tower to take an airship to their conceived new destination, as instructed by a very stubborn Roewyn, you found a House Sivis messaging station and used their services to send letters to the rest of the group. As Athena glided through the air, you caught a glimpse of a strange curiosity - a female tied to the mainmast of a familiar ship, juxtaposed by intimidating figures. As you approached, you recognized the woman and the ship -- a young Karlen Thorne and the ship, well that was yours. Swiftly jumping into combat in a boom of thunderous energy, you managed to eliminate the intruding party. Shortly after you, the Knights of Thrane arrived, flying on an enlarged, crystalline spine wyvern.*

*Meanwhile, Fangli and Darwin met with Father Augustine, Bishop of International Affairs. Agosto granted you a form to be signed by the High Cardinal requesting for reinforcement in the Demon Wastes. Reflecting on the family name Towger, Agosto paused for a moment, his eyes flashing a silver light. Suddenly gasping to catch a breath of air, his veins coursed a maleficent shade. Just as the memory of the aged priest magically returned, he passed. Darwin, quick to respond, enchanted the body with a spell of preservation with the intent of timely resurrection and the duo traversed the halls into inner sanctum of the Cathedral to meet with the High Cardinal himself, who quickly dismissed them but first granted them the components as petitioned, despite their untimely and irrelevant request.*

*As you waited at the bottom of steps, you were approached my near silent footsteps and a quiet, concerned childlike voice. Thomas and Emiline Cromwell, Apprentice Holy Knights. Their cheerful childish naivety brightened up the solemn atmosphere. Thomas get aheads of you and starts valiantly walking up the stairs confidently while Emiline follows behind you, watching suspiciously with concern, You could hear her muttering something, almost as if chanting. Just as you walk past the stained glass mysterium shining light into the dark hallway, out of sight of anyone inside the sanctum, your vision is suddenly obscured. You find yourselves staring into total darkness.*

*When you wake up, you feel like a great deal of weight has been lifted from your chests. Your armor is gone and you find yourself in a a closed space, a room filled with smoke. You notice that your back is particularly uncomfortable, as if you are laying on a bed of rocks. Your legs are tied by small, tightly coiled strands of leather and they are suspended off the ground on separate stone surfaces. A band of studded leather straps your torsos tightly to the sharp stones beneath you. Above you, a suspended hearth emits a dim red glow. To your right, a leather bellows is bolted to a brick wall. Attached to this, a pipe traces the bricks' edges, dropping down to the stone slab floor. In very near proximity a rope hangs looking to be attached to a pulley system. You hear muttering outside the door and the sound of snoring coming from somewhere in immediate proximity. As your vision gradually reorients, in the far side of the room you can spy various torture instruments. Looking over at Darwin, you notice just beneath him, barely out of arms reach is a set of blacksmith tools lying on the ground. (A hammer, tongs, punches, and chisel). If he were to really stretch, he might be able to reach the hammer sticking up out of the bag.* 

*Walking in, a man wearing onyx-black half-plate impact armour sashed with scarlet silks and a blood-red arrowhead pendant hangs from his neck, the idealistic crusader himself, High Cardinal Krozen. To his left stands a knight with the Silver Flame blazoned across his breastplate, its argent fire incongruous in this hidden room that remained locked in the days of Thalin's reign. A silver pendant hangs on thick chain about his neck, its stylized flame proclaiming the man's faith for all to see, and the hilt of a great-sword is visible over his left shoulder. You recognize this as Captain Malik Otherro, captain over the Knights of Thrane regiment. A young pale skinned boy clothed in a black cloth uniform like the children earlier also nervously walks in, watching the scene from across the room.*

*"Blacksmith!.. You're excused", the Cardinal bellows as the snoring stops, and an obese, goateed man quickly scuttles out of the room. "Darwin Albatross. Never thought I'd see your sorry face again. Coming into my inner sanctum on a holiday, nonetheless! ... Ah, yes. I remember that day, Darwin. How could I forget seeing my brothers bested by a fucking hobgoblin! And NOW, you waste MY time with your pitiful requests, for what was it? Ah, yes. To resurrect Bishop Agosto. Why yes, I heard about that. In fact, I ordered his execution, but perhaps my dark assassins were just a bit too hasty. That, or perhaps the old gnome just couldn't quite hold his tongue after all." He pauses his speech, looking over at his presumed assistant and slowly nods his head. "Now then, what exactly did he tell you? My assistant also tells me that perhaps you are looking for something of similar interest... An artifact. A long, lost weapon of the Great War. Do you know of what I am speaking? In fact, I sent a trusted associate of mine to retrieve it and yet, I have received no word from him since. And about a week later, you show up at my doorstep speaking of dark forces. Who are you working for?"*

*He pauses for a moment, his mental attention suddenly becomes fixated elsewhere. "Damn the Sovereigns. I have business to attend elsewhere. Joachim! Keep an eye on the prisoners, they make one move, son..." handing the child a rusty crossbow which seems very unwieldy, "you know what to do." The Cardinal exits the room, but only for a moment as he reenters, staring at you intently and laughs. "Ha! You thought I'd leave you alone with just my boy?!" He snaps his fingers and a magical darkness suddenly and swiftly fills the room. In an instant, the darkness vanishes and as your eyes rescan the room for surprises, you notice all the cobblestone slabs in the immediate proximity, pitch black.* (6 shadows)

Cardinal mocks the concept of resurrecting (to disallow one's spirit to receive its beatific vision, to be saved from this cruel and decaying world!).

Letter sent: "Meet us at the airship tower. We have the gnome and paladin."

---

From the heights of the Lyrandar tower, a frosty breeze sends chills down your spine. Any druid could tell you, a sudden weather change is imminent. A scarlet red moon brightens up the skies, especially and unusually prevalent in the night skies. Nearly in direct juxtaposition, a smaller, yet significantly brighter gray moon illuminates like a sun, penetrating a blood red backdrop. Despite the luminescent moons, storm clouds populate the stratosphere in disarray.

A cloaked, shrouded figure wearing a black and gold livery suddenly approaches, shifting his way through the crowds. "Message for you, madam," the courier announces as he presents you a wax-sealed envelope and two cylindrical objects tightly wrapped in silk. As he hands over the message, his images phases for a split-second and vanishes in a dark haze.

Within the envelope, you find a small piece of parchment with the words Falrirx Edsok and a line striking the text. Flipping the parchment over, you see the name Arend Montevik and an address: Ebonspire, East Tower, Room 9352. Beside this appears black silhouette of an eyeball encircled by a ring of smaller eyes (House Medani) and in seconds post-glance, the parchment ignites, completely incinerated in a moment's notice

""Remarkable." As Roewyn packs up his game set and suddenly stands with immediacy, his gaze affixed toward the night sky. *(Perception check)* Streaks of light appear between the near adjacent moons, easy to miss. He begins murmuring to himself for a moment, as if lost in thought.

*It shall be then, when the Lantern bypasses the Gateway and the heavens fall,*

*the Shadow that lurks within the Flame shall burn through the molten core of Eberron's spine*

*and from the depths of Khyber shall bring forth the Era of Twilight.*

"Oh, Sovereigns bless, if you please forgive my unpleasantness, I must speak to my associates privately", glancing over at Syndra.

"We are desperately running out of time. Where is the rest of the group?"

---

```
Abruptly, the sacred overlooking dome of the Cathedral of the Silver Flame bursts in a beacon of platinum fire reaching impractical heights. As you marvel at the sight, an all-encompassing dome of radiant silver energy, a familiar ward, manifests in the skyline, blanketing the entirety of the lower districts, the Temple Districts, the Mercantile Districts, the Harbor... the city in its totality. But the ward appears only for a moment as the blazing column of fire circumvents the barrier, the sky above becomes a sea of embers descending onto the capital city. The barrier, now penetrated, phases out of existence, as the oncoming inferno ceases midair, but the pillar emitting from the Cathedral continues to creep into the heavens above.

```

Echoing through the halls external to the room you currently reside in, the unnerving sound of a child's screams as if in agonizing pain temporarily deafens you.

"We astronomers believe that this prophetical text describes a trial preordained since ancient times and it will herald the beginning of a holy war between the guiding hand of the light and the bloodline of the darkness. Now what this roguish sword-bearing agent has to do with this, I have not ascertained... But for some unbeknownst purpose, my employer professes interest and so it is in *our* best interest to continue this mission expeditiously."

```
As you ascend the steps, up ahead you see the inner mysterium radiating with a blinding brightness. Upon close examination, partially shielding your eyes, you witness a horrific scene - a disarray of what was once clerics and priests, now scorched corpses scattered throughout the room. The screaming has yet to stop, the sound resonates in the chamber as if originating from the flame itself. The sound of footsteps echo down the halls, getting louder and louder until you find yourselves in the presence of several Holy Knights of Thrane, each with looks of absolute fear. 

```

After the guards' questioning, the screaming stops and a soft, maleficent whisper comes from the flame, "Karrnath... You must go to Karrnath." and the spire of flame suddenly diminishes to its previous state, that of a suppressed and meticulously controlled bonfire. From the guard's perspective, (only one was present) the Keeper of the Flame was in her private chambers sleeping when this happened. As Fangli and Darwin leave the Cathedral, you hear a sudden discordant noise, as a swarm of bats exits through the large iron doors.

**Locations of Interest:**

- Pubs / Lounges: The Cup and the Blessing, The Knight’s Club, and The Wandering Coachman Tavern.
- Inns / Taverns: The Virtuous Fox Bed & Breakfast, The Illuminated Path, and The Oasis Inn

**Combat ideas:**

- Wingwyrd (gargoyle) (*Five Nations*)
- Silvereye marauder (construct) *(Five Nations)*

For me, preparation means lots of maps and notes, partial scripts for dialogue, a few random events to mix things up, an outline suggesting possible paths of the session, lists of random Non-Player Character (NPC) and location names, and a few entries on major NPCs, detailing their backgrounds and motivations.

NPCs

**Queen Diani ir'Wynarn**, (blood regent of Thrane),

*She has often been said to be a pale copy of her cousin, Queen Aurala of Aundair, whose long blonde tresses and steely gray eyes were the stuff of legend. If such aphorisms were true, then Aurala must be a veritable angel, for the woman who stands before can only be described as breathtaking. Blonde curls spill over shapely shoulders falling nearly to her waist, while eyes like Siberys shards set in alabastar studies you intently from within a perfectly-sculpted face. A soft glamerweave gown dances with shifting shades of purple and clung in all the right places, while a pendant of lavender mourn-lode sparkled provocatively from within the confines of her cleavage. Even her amused smile seems lovely, formed by sun-kissed rose lips*

**Dzarro Silvervein**, Queen's dwarven bodyguard:

*A silver-bearded warrior leaning on a massive dwarven waraxe. He wears a bejeweled eye-patch, gleaming brightly as a thousand everbright lanterns. Simple platinum pin clasped the dwarf's flowing purple cloak at his left shoulder.*

**Captain Malik Otherro**, Knight of Thrane, captain of the guard, Queen's lover

*To the left of the throne stands a knight with the Silver Flame blazoned across his breastplate, its argent fire incongruous in this castle that remained locked in the days of Thalin's reign. A silver pendant hangs on thick chain about his neck, its stylized flame proclaiming the man's faith for all to see, and the hilt of a great-sword is visible over his left shoulder.*

- **Sir Knight Vedith Darkroth**, Knight of Thrane, escorting Emily d'Morrun to be executed
- **Arch-minister Shadar Raccanoch** (Argentum)
- **Alastair ir'Daven**, Silver Flame Pyromancer and Assassin of the Argentum
- **Sir Knight Coref Irvallo***,* Ex-marshal of the Knights Militant, turned adventurer after the Last War and later became a Throneholder.
- **Lady Knight Imperi Hetrion**, one of the Five Prefects of the Silver Flame's Knights Militant
- **Knight-Marshal Theoban Flamerule***,* Knight-Marshal of the Knights Militant in the Church of the Silver Flame, and former mentor of Mikhal Thanesman.
- **Knight-Marshal Barnus Firehope***,* Knight Marshal in charge of the Knights Militant of the city of Thaliost
- **Sir Knight Valen Valentar**, A Throneholder, the leader of the "Knights of Thrane" faction working on Xen'drik to restore the Thrane monarchy.
- **Lord Athen ir' Falant,** Obese nobleman representing the Throneholders in Flamekeep.
- **Elder Weldon Nevillom** of Wyrmwatch has said that the Silver Flame has shown him that the Purge must begin again, and that we should eliminate all shifters from Khorvaire. Elder Nevillom has a small amount of zealous followers that support him, though his efforts are confined to the wilds of Q'barra for now.

Organizations of Thrane:

- Argentum: internal intelligence agency; the Argentum excels at theft and extraction, and has access to the warehouse of dangerous artifacts its gathered over the centuries.

*Victor's Day, 11th Barrakas, 1016 YK*

**Recap.** *Last time in Eberron, you witnessed what has always been the beacon of hope, the symbol of faith, the holy dome of the cathedral erupt in fire. What could only be described as an apocalyptic event for no reason at all. The screams of that child still echo in your ears. Given the choices you've made, you know there's no turning back now. The blazing column threatened an impending holocaust of the city, but as the flames subsided, a cool gust of wind filled the vicinity. Even amidst the panic, you arranged a method of travel, provisioned sea-faring vouchers by a kind benefactor.*

Last time in Eberron, you left the great city of Flamekeep, but not without first tarnishing your reputation with the Church, slaying many brave knights in the process. As you exited the magisterium of the great cathedral you were greeted by a swarm of bats that disappeared into the night. It was only then did you notice, walking down the steps, the Siberys moons within the celestial sky shine so brightly tonight. You notice Azrod the blood red giant tainting the black sky with its red glow, a backdrop behind a much brighter smaller moon which shines almost like a spotlight. And now all this wouldn't be so particular because Eberron is known for its many moons creating beautiful night horizons until the transformation began...

# Flamekeep

Fangli and Darwin should be granted inspiration before the game starts.

```
As you exit magisterium of the great cathedral walking through the inner sanctum finally leaving the building greeted by a swarm of bats that disappear into the night do you notice as you're walking down the steps the Siberys moons within the celestial sky shine so brightly tonight. You notice Azrod the blood red giant tainting the black sky with its red glow, a backdrop behind a much brighter smaller moon which shines almost like a spotlight. And now all this wouldn't be so particular because Eberron is known for its many moons creating beautiful night horizons but for some reason the moons call out as if awakening within you an inner feral instinct.

```

A friar (Monastery of **Saint Dioscian the Anchorite**, Black Pit, Breland) rushes into the Cathedral just as you are exiting.

```
"Brothers! The Silver Flame is at its most desperate hour at this time. The Lady Keeper has been taken; the Sovereigns may only know where she could be. Do you not hear her cries? The Church beckons!"

```

**The Lucky Dragonshard Cardhouse**

Visitors to the lower levels of Lyrandar Tower can choose from several locations for gambling. Most such establishments offer a wide array of card games, as well as other games of chance, such as the roulette wheel and dice. The Lucky Dragonshard Cardhouse offers all of these games, plus a few more exotic events upon which people can wager money.

The card house occupies the central portion of a floor one-tenth of the way from the cogs to the roof. The tower is nearly half a mile in diameter here, and the card house occupies approximately one-third of the level. The décor is exotic, and several of the rooms in the Lucky Dragonshard are actually designed to simulate the other continents of Eberron. One room, designed in a Xen’drik motif, has a mural of a vast jungle covering its walls, with a massive pyramid rising above the forest canopy. Another room is festooned with lifelike statues of mighty orc warriors, and the murals on its walls reflect a Darguun theme. The lounge is partially obscured by smoke and you notice a small bar resides in the corner.

In one room, several tiers of seats surround a central platform with a padded floor; two monks appear to be pitted against each other with a small crowd cheering on the match. Another chamber houses a small theater with several rows of seats facing the stage, the theater appears to currently not be in use. Several guards d'Deneith stand at attention.

- Games of Chance:
    - Aureon's Favor: essentially three-card poker; 3d6: three-of-a-kind, straight (high/low), pair, high card; buy-in at 3 gold, re-roll 1 gold

Brussow Books

319 Tinkleton Lane, East Korth

**NPCs**:

- **Rilfar Smas** - rogue, owner; lithe, wiry man stands no more than 5 feet tall and has curly black hair, a mustache, and a goatee; his body hair juts out of the corners of his form-fitting suit.
- **Timkin Templeton** - A very drunk Halfling runs into the party and offers to buy them a round of drunks. The lucky rogue has just won over three hundred gold coins in a game of cards. In his drunken state, he’s being very generous with his winnings, buying rounds for the entire bar and offering meals and gifts to everyone around him. Good-natured PCs may wish to try and control the Halfling, while less honest characters may see this as an opportunity too good to pass up.
- **Otgruk Axedelver** - An outlander barbarian, drunk and broke after spending a few hours at the table, becomes increasingly aggressive with his gambling companions. He complains vocally about being cheated, accusing everyone at his table of swindling him. Should anyone oppose his statements, he will attempt to start a brawl or even draw his longsword and attack.

**Traveling the Scions Sound**

The *Silver Hook* is a three-masted sailing ship, 100 feet long from stem to stern, and 30 feet wide amidships. This salling ship has been fitted with an Eberron dragonshard with a bound water and air elemental below deck that is linked to a massive crystal ring located behind the ship and a series of fins along the sides.

To the south-east, a ruined city, dismantled gray edifices peek over a rolling fog that permeates the city's reach. The desolate, very distant city is situated atop an escarpment that forms the base of what locals call "The Arrow", a low-lying spit of land jutting north into Scions Sound. To the north-east, Thronehold, its golden towers glistening evening during the day. A storm broils in the distant horizon.

• Viorr Malak to contact PCs via sending stone passed along through a passenger on the ship. "It has been very long time... I am told you have new people who have joined you. This concerns me. You have spent over 1300 Galifars and still you do not return with what you have promised. Mmm... that's a real shame. Tell me, how do I know your reputation is solid?... 2 days. You have 2 days. And I better hear good news or else there will be consequences."

• On the ship: the captain of the ship suddenly becomes reluctant and quiet, avoiding eye contact yet staring down otherwise. The ship begins to turn around in the middle of the night. Within hours, a company (3/5) of Flamekeep ships each with archers wielding enflamed bow and arrows surround the ship. "Darwin Albatross and Fangli Towger. You are wanted for the murders of High Cardinal Nathaniel Krozen and Captain Malik Otherro. You are designated an immediate return to Flamekeep where you will face expedited trial and execution." ~ Commander Farnesse, Knight Militant Orroth

Ahead of the storm is a Chillng Fog Living Spell rolling in from the Mournlands, attracted to the cold mists.

- The trip will take about 10 hours (a little longer than a lightning rail, the same distance: 250 miles)

**NPCs:**

- **Emira Brighton** (female, elf rogue/bard). Emira is a common sight around the docks of Korth, always looking for her next job. While many captains have hired her for a job or two, most find her incessant singing and whistling too much to hire her again. That said, few could find a better lookout and rigger in the area. She spends most of her time up the masts, keeping her eye toward the horizon while working to make sure the sails are full of wind.
- **Graydan Stone** guide (male dwarf, expert). It is said that given a map and a destination, Graydan could plot a course there from the other side of the world. Quiet, loves cartography, astronomy and navigation more than anything and rarely has anything to say otherwise.
- **Olart Grimtirk** (orc barbarian) Crude, hostile and for that reason, valued by the captain. A fierce combatant, but his real talents lie in repair. He is often tasked with the upkeep and maintenance of the ship, its weapons and furnishings. *rod of repair* (50hp)
- **Samat the Firebringer** (male human sorcerer) greedy thief, steals from passengers

```
When the fog lifts, a horrid stench permeates the air. Skeletal corpses appear to be buoying in the surrounding palatinate purple water reflecting the light of Artuth. Among the corpses, the body of a woman floats in the water, her long, black hair drifting with the current.

```

- Roewyn's explains a new vision: clanking sounds of machinery, a cryptic flesh golem and Lucan himself looking very bloodied. A luminescent green glow and iconography, oil lamps.
- Contacted by agent of the *Whispering Flame*: "Running from the Flame now, are we? Trying not to get burned? ... My name is Verbane Istivin. I can offer protection and any information you seek. Come to Blackwood Chapel. I'll be waiting for you."

# 

# 

# 

#