# Eberron 9: Fairhaven, Aundair - "Chasing Light"

[https://mephitjamesblog.wordpress.com/2016/09/06/foreign-powers-in-fairhaven/](https://mephitjamesblog.wordpress.com/2016/09/06/foreign-powers-in-fairhaven/)

[https://www.tavern-keeper.com/campaign/395/page/1254](https://www.tavern-keeper.com/campaign/395/page/1254) (Ilsesine, god of the Illithid)

Fantasy University Map: [https://imgur.com/gallery/51h2yhL](https://imgur.com/gallery/51h2yhL)

## **FAIRHAVEN**

---

[http://mephitjames.wikidot.com/fairhaven](http://mephitjames.wikidot.com/fairhaven)

- *Aundair* Description

    **Aundair** is a mostly flat country of farmlands and vineyards, in close proximity to the Eldeen Reaches, with a strong culture
    of craftsmen, academics, and magic. Its capital is **Fairhaven**, and **House Lyrandar** and House Orien are headquartered here. It possesses the premier academy of magic in all of Khorvaire, the **Floating Towers of Arcanix**. Although Aundair's army is small compared to its neighbors, it held its own throughout the Last War through its use of spellcasters within the army to employ destructive magical weapons and spells against its enemies. Aundair is governed by **The Triumvirate**, consisting of Queen Aurala, First Warlord Adal (who is the Royal Minister of Magic), and Lord Darro (leader of the Knights Arcane). Queen Aurala is a suspicious ruler, and as such operates the most extensive espionage system employed by any of the governments of Khorvaire, the Royal Eyes of Aundair. Its fiercest enemy during the Last War was neighboring Thrane, and relations between the two remain cold. Aundair's national symbol is the dragonhawk, a large, majestic bird of prey that can be used as a mount. During the Last War, Queen Aurala negotiated cease-fires with every nation, though non-permanent in order to buy time to build a fairly minified army composed of mercenaries of Valentar Elves, Talenta halflings and pirates of the Lhazaar Principalities. During this Cold War period and following the Last War, the Queen has employed a number of diplomats to direct their efforts once again to these nations to recompose her army.

- *Fairhaven* Description

    The capital of Aundair, the City of Lights, is the nation’s economic heart. Wide, straight streets provide easy travel, allowing merchants to deliver goods to Fairhaven’s bustling markets, including the famous *Distant Exchange*. More than anything else, *Fairhaven* is a city of learning, home to an uncountable number of institutions that range from full-fledged universities to tiny private schools, each educating students in a wide variety of topics. Fairhaven includes a naval, port district along the Aundair River between Aundair and Thrane. The centralized noble Courts of Fairhaven (*Fairhold*), often called a city within a city, features the royal family estate, The Queen's Hall, The Royal Collection of Aundair, The Tower of Eyes, an additional Lightning Rail platform utilized only by nobles and elite, The Courts of Justice and a major garrison of The Knights Arcane. West of Fairhaven is *Whisper Rock*, a strange fey-ridden forest, arcanically twisted from the magical practices of Arcanix University students lying just southwest. The forest is full of fey (satres, spiders, dryads, centaur tribes, and sprites) and common animals (bears, owlbears, wolves). 

    The city of Fairhaven is the largest in Aundair and the seat of royal power. The city, only recently deemed the capital when the original capital Thaliost fell to Thrane in 977 CY, is always abustle with activity. Founded soon after humanity spread across Khorvaire, Fairhaven is a city with a rich history. The capital features straight roads and tidy buildings, with tree-lined neighborhoods, manicured parks, and statues depicting great leaders and heroes. Grand universities fill city blocks, teeming with students and scholars. Great temples dedicated to the Sovereign Host, mage towers, museums, and more give the city a refined atmosphere. Fairhaven is also Aundair’s commercial crossroad. All the dragon marked houses have enclaves here, and caravans from all across the Five Nations arrive regularly. Overhead, elemental airships drift through the clouds, descending to dock at the sky tower, while elemental galleons prowl the Aundair River, laden with goods being conveyed to and from distant ports. Merchants and traders wheel and deal with skeptical peasants from the surrounding farmlands in Fairhaven’s numerous marketplaces. The Distant Exchange, a bustling market specializing in foreign goods, provides silks, exotic consumables, and brilliant artwork from faraway lands, catering tothe city’s elite. Above all, Fairhaven is a city of learning. Schools ranging from single classrooms to sprawling universities are home to students from all cultures and races. This crucible produces regular advances in philosophy, magic, sciences, and commerce. Fairhaven’s reputation for scholarship makes education its greatest industry.

- NPCs of Fairhaven

    [Eberron: NPCs](Eberron%209%20Fairhaven%20Aundair%20Chasing%20Light%20eacaa0a5b28f4c73b7108bf98d22fcc2/Eberron%20NPCs%20130ea0aebe2b4b719cc36bb37d3046c1.csv)

- City Places of Fairhaven

    [City Places](Eberron%209%20Fairhaven%20Aundair%20Chasing%20Light%20eacaa0a5b28f4c73b7108bf98d22fcc2/City%20Places%20d87217020b184c08a48ce16d80579ad4.csv)

Travel Times:
[Map of Eberron](http://archive.wizards.com/dnd/images/eb_map/Eberron_Map_32x20.jpg)
* Metrol -> Aruldusk, Thrane: 500 miles = (500/20 = 25 hours)
* Aruldusk, Thrane -> Athandra, Thrane: 400 miles = (400/20 = 20 hours)
* Athandra -> Fairhaven: 300 miles (300/20 = 15 hours)
* Total: 1200/20 = 60 hours (60/24 = 2.5 days)

Airships travel at "roughly 20 miles per hour". This is at its fastest speed, assuming no weather difficulties. Consider allowing for the elementals time to rest.

What is the story we're telling?

Each passing day results in a new set of events:
* Day 1: Citizens are aprehensive to the alleged change in leadership.
* Day 2: Riots, guard checkpoints introduced, city placed on lockdown.
* Day 3: Parasyte introduced to controlled environment. Construction of the monolith begins.
* 

Chapter > Scene > Scenario

## Passing of Time
---

Following the assassination of Aurala ir'Wynarn...

TODO: Divide this arc into "sessions" (scenarios) with clear objectives.

'You are piloting an illegal vessel across national borders. Stand down for search and seizure."

NPCs:

- Lord Xerakhesh
- Lord Kaltaresh, "KEEPER OF SEALS" (Edgewalker)
- Lady Sharadhuna
- Lord Helkadesh (Inspired inquisitor), Gatekeeper of Jhorda
- Lady Tureya, the Jewel of Corvagura (ambassador of Jhorda)
- Lady Malesha (LE female usvapna telepath 11)  the commanding officer of the Jhodra Thousand Eyes who personally handles interrogation of prisoners.
- Lord Tulkath (LE male hashalaq Inspired kineticist 10), who can use trace teleport and psionic dimensional anchor to help apprehend criminals
- Lady Dardhuna (LE female hashalaq Inspired seer 9), a specialist in remote viewing.

TODO:

• Consider the rebound effects of Corrine broadcasting her message to Fairhaven. This could be played rather simply, moreover informing the elite and the Inspired rather than the general public. First, broadcast messaging, though often used for city-wide announcements (major events,

-- Alternatively, this could put the city on alert, starting up riots and looking toward Corrine as a new hero (think Colony). One possibility is that the riots work and the Inspired announce their direct rule/control over the Aundairian populace to suppress the crowds. The city (having already been quarantined due to the potential ghoul outbreak) officially becomes locked down.

During the journey to Fairhaven, **Dalasskash'alyntar** gives the players the following information:


*Imagine if people (say the Khalashtar) preferred dreams to life. Where they go to sleep to wake up. Would they if given the choice, sleep all day? Would they, like an immunity system of white cells against an extraneous disease, rid any delineation or control of another dreamer just to preserve their reality? There is but one true dream. Perhaps you remember the mile-high towers of Ascolais or the mists pouring down the Grey Mountains like the ghosts of a thousand waterfalls. Perhaps not, it does not matter, all those who sleep go to the same land. The early 1st century before the Sundering, when we learned that the collective unconsciousness was something more than a pet theory of crackpot psychologists and people began to swarm into the dreamland, was a heady time. You had gang bosses calling in hits in dreams to avoid sending stone taps, people organizing guided tours to the plateau of Leng and desperate people saving up enough money for the medication and life support tanks that would keep them dreaming for decades. To be sure there was much immoral and more illegal happening in the land of dreams, but it was hard to take seriously. One could not die in a dream, after all. But then we learned that we are not the only race that dreams. Beneath strange stars other races live, creatures with motives we are only now beginning to understand who were wise in the ways of dreams when man first mastered fire. There had been rumors of them for years, lurking about the edges of the dreams of men, but then came 177 Unity (-125 YK), the Darkest Night when an illithid horde swarmed down over the Grey Mountains of Yaruun and millions in the Eastern Hemisphere (and late sleepers elsewhere) awoke with their sanity shattered. Since then things have gotten worse. While there are no races as cruel as the illithids, many are just as dangerous. The less said of the silver swords of the gith the better. And in the caverns beneath Leng there is a flourishing trade in neogi slave collars, which ensure that each night a dreamer finds himself or herself in the same place as the last.*

Lore (History DC 20):

*The Madness of Yaruun (Adar): By 177 Unity (-125 YK), Riedra was firmly established, but memories of the old kingdoms remained, giving rise to lingering tensions. Then a series of devastating psionic attacks took place along the borders of Adar. The worst of these occurred in the city of Yaruun, where every inhabitant was left insane. The Inspired revealed that these attacks were the work of an unexpected enemy: the khalashtar, mortals who had given their bodies to altavars (evil spirits). Now the Riedrans had a focus for their anger, and thus was set in motion the long struggle between Riedra and Adar that continues to this day. After a few costly battles, the Inspired chose to place Adar under siege instead of trying to invade and conquer it. The Madness of Yaruun was the defining moment of the relationship between Riedra and the kalashtar, and it indelibly etched the image of the monstrous kalashtar into the Riedran psyche. Of course, the reason behind the attacks remains a mystery. The khalashtar have no records of them. It is possible that the Madness was staged by the Dreaming Dark to turn the people against the khalashtar. After a thousand years, the truth might never be known.*

Character Involvement:

- Syndra - contact House Medani, setup appointment w/ Lord Dantian d'Medani (an older inquisitor with a fake, clockwork eye)
    - In exchange for information, Medani will provide details regarding wards of Fairhold and offer magical items to ease entry.
        - Gifts from Medani
    - House Medani's Investigative Services (Guild name?) would have been looking into Aurala's death.
    - Keep the mission classified and under wraps, hence why they will be sending the Players to perform the assassination.
        - In this mission, they will be accompanied by select operatives of MIST (Medani Infiltration and Surveillance Troupe)

- Karlyn - her Royal Eyes connection (let's say it's unchanged), gives her a prominent way into the capital grounds; namely, she would be familiar with side-entrances into Fairhold, etc.
- Dorrias - Sivis - The Trust
- Snorri - Kundarak
- Sorrif - ?



Narrative Outline:

- Arrival

- [ ]  TODO: Do we need any content for other cities / places they may wish / need to stop at on the way?
- [ ]  TODO: Create TONS of NPCs - previous contacts for Corrine (maids, servants, etc.)
- [ ]  TODO: See Five Nations for description of Fairhaven / Locations

Consciousness is like a fading candle in a shadowy home, a lonely light flickering in the wind. Everything else is in shade. Anything that lives within you, wanders within you, is there. It works. It lives. Instinct, eros, dreams, forbidden thoughts. Memories that we do not want to see in the light, that we displaced from the light. They dance around in the darkness. They cloister together and torment us. They haunt and they sicken. They makes us hysteric.

**Austasia Marabelle ir'Wynarn**

Following Corrine's departure from Fairhaven, Austasia was temporarily arrested, believed to be assisting the kidnapping of the princess. Aurala, Corrine's mother, sought to keep the event unbeknownst to the eyes and ears of the public, a choice political move. Austasia, after a scolding from her father, would be disciplined. Compelled to join the Knights Arcane, Fairhold's elite dragonhawk knights, Austasia showed promise, but her wish for independence and the freedom to choose whom she would marry would never be granted. Her sheer stubbornness, her insistent refusal would purchase her only seldom time.

### The Inspired

**Temple of the Wandering Light** (Parish'ashatai)

Followers of the Path of Light, including survivors of the "Cleansing" of Sanctuary (1001YK, 14 years prior), gather here in fellowship.

**Brave Spirits**

In 1013YK (2 years prior), Austasia founded a rebellious faction whom communicate only through telegraph messaging, broadcasting their cause over sending stone "waves" (transmissions through dreams). The faction allegedly has connections with House Medani, shadow operators reporting regarding a form of black market operating in the city. These same people discovered an intention to overthrow the existing government, the dissatisfaction particular to the Knights Phantom. Civilians, reportedly Khalashtaar, from Thaliost began creating strife in the city, organizing violent riots and pillaging local businesses (very uncharacteristic of the Khalashtaar).

Location Possibilities:

- The abandoned Silver Flame Chapel (which used to be run by a notorious gang called the "Black Daggers").

NPCs:

- Consider characters with black market connections

### SCENARIOS

State of the Town:

- Things like make-shift barricade, guard checkpoints, violent mobs, looters, over turned wagons, fires, people fleeing, injured people
- plague, riot, heavy-handed government, etc.
- The town of light and color has become a town of gray and dismay.

How to make the City of Lights steampunk? Consider steampunk pictures for inspiration. Perhaps Shadowrun big cities? 🙂

Consider creating an explicit relation between the Inspired hosted in Fairhaven and the events that transpired in Karrnath.

This is an opportunity for a government objective; directed campaign, working for trusted political alliances

- Read up on that Lovecraftian Pathfinder adventure, probably has some great NPC concepts.
- Consider adding some Khalashtaar NPCs for the Temple of the Path of Light

Welcome back. The City of Lights. Or in this case, a night-time twilight.

Truly, “city on a hill”, Fairhaven’s city design highlights its prominent feature, the Gates of Fairhold.

The city, only recently deemed the capital when the original capital [Thaliost](https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Thaliost) fell to Thrane in 977 CY, is always abustle with activity.

**Possible Encounters:**

(1) Entrance - what does the city look like? Is there a quarantine? Are the guards disallowing entry (except for governmental assistance / medical supply runs / essential services)

(2) What about Fairhold? As done for Karn, Karrnath, add a list of businesses / services / districts available for exploration. Don’t forget the Dragonmarked houses.

***The Gene-Seed ~ the "Psychic Awakening"***

The gene-seed is its future of the New Order; the function of the Apothecary is centred around the recovery of the "sacred" progrenoid glands to ensure the gene-seed may continue to create the Enigma (a breed of soldiers). Thus, the importance of gene-seed to a Chapter cannot be overstated—meaning that any mysteries arising from the Chapter’s gene-seed gain similar gravitas. Any impurity or genetic deficiency arising in a Chapter’s gene-seed is cause for grave concern. Immunity to the parasites = psionic resistance.

End-game plots:

- If the parasites able to...
    - What if the parasite spread through dreams?
        - Affects some people before others, creating confusion and paranoia
- If the super soldiers exert influence / control over the populations

Ideas from Matt:

- Make the princess a warforged, a perfect replica
- Unstable psionic space
    - Offering a spirit for her to co-exist
    - Cohabitation
    - Dream warfare - through mass inception - a response to riots
        - (1) rewriting history, waking up with a new allegiance to the empire
        - (2) shattering of minds
    - Problem: abandons the parasite plot
    - Consider a hostage situation, convincing the population to do something.
    - Add the flooded city to the lore dump.

You have time to work with for putting the nation into a state of disarray.

Austasia, anarchist in the Knights Phantom. Rebel connecting to the broadcast, "we heard you"

- Could betray her during the dream.

"I feel like I've been here before"

What if that organization tried to replicate their dreams in reality? (the population at large)

and the main question is: "Am I in a dream right now?"

- Either to drive them crazy (destabilize the government) or to "get a result"

Adassa Sano, Tabak Verna, & Novalie Marthea

### The Rise of Emrakul

*The Rise of Emrakul.* Her arrival is immanent. We are simply preparing the way for her grand entrance. Emrakul is the largest and most fearsome of the three Eldrazi titans imprisoned on Zendikar. She causes silent horror wherever she soars, embodying desolation, emotional and physical distance, the chill of the void, and the terror of being alone. Thus, in many ways, she is perfectly at home on Innistrad. Emrakul’s initial approach to Innistrad pressed on the minds of that plane’s inhabitants, straining their sanity. Her full manifestation then amplified that effect. Cultists who bordered on mad obsession descended into gibbering adulation of their Eldrazi idol, and scholars who pried into dark secrets fell catatonic with the full realization of the alien horror they studied. Emrakul arrived on Innistrad without her brood of drones and other spawn, so she immediately began warping the native creatures of the plane—both natural and unnatural—in her own monstrous image. Beings transformed into Emrakul’s spawn manifested fleshy lattice structures, distorted symmetry, and tentacles ending in knobby, vestigial digits. Those who had already begun their descent into corruption before the Eldrazi’s arrival were warped almost beyond recognition, but even those who fought against the madness during her approach were susceptible to the life-warping affects of her presence. Emrakul’s arrival set a new series of horrific events in motion, as humans and monsters alike found their very existence threatened by this blasphemous horror.

**The Khorvaire Exposition for the Advancement of Artificing and the Arcane**

This famous conference attracts both practitioners of the arcane such as magewrights, artificers, and wizards (and the occasional dabbler like priests of Aureon or Eldeen Reaches hedge mages) as well as non-practicing researchers, philosophers, reporters, and the like--in short, everyone who is anyone in the realm of arcane research looks forward every year to either attend the conference or read the resulting publications. Formerly known as the Galifar Exposition rather than the Khorvaire Exposition before the Last War, the conference has a long and proud tradition of celebrating the arcane arts throughout the continent. The very first conference was held in 789 YK, at which House Sivis unveiled the first message station, House Orien showed off a prototype of what would later become the lightning rail, and the Arcane Congress held a now-infamous demonstration of several new varieties of homunculus. The conference was held every five years from its inception up until the Last War broke out, at which point it began to be held sporadically every few decades when the fighting was at a low point; the creation of the Mournland in 994 YK prompted a conference to be held that year to remind the public that magical research is much more than just making bigger booms, and it has been held every year since to continue to encourage international and inter-House cooperation.