# Eberron 6: "The Litany of the Dead"

# Karrnath

Karrnath. The birthplace of kings, forged in war.

"And when the dead walk... the living will fill these coffins."

[Eberron 6: Karrnath Dungeon Design](Eberron%206%20The%20Litany%20of%20the%20Dead%2006718e14764643ec9eb811781432524f/Eberron%206%20Karrnath%20Dungeon%20Design%207ec1e407bf834d29b3e62a1272f7acdb.md)

[Eberron 6: Stats and Karrnath Notes](Eberron%206%20The%20Litany%20of%20the%20Dead%2006718e14764643ec9eb811781432524f/Eberron%206%20Stats%20and%20Karrnath%20Notes%206e8c4b1ee8dc4aa8b1b9403b52e5245f.md)

[Scenario 0: Dawn of the Deep](Eberron%206%20The%20Litany%20of%20the%20Dead%2006718e14764643ec9eb811781432524f/Scenario%200%20Dawn%20of%20the%20Deep%205d6be0e223bd4a1287b80bd497c41b1a.md)

### **Korth**

The Korth skyline rises along the southern shore of the Karrn River, with the dense Nightwood to the east of the city gates. The high walls of Crownhome, the hereditary home of Karrnath’s royal family, rise atop King’s Hill in the Highcourt Ward of the city. Also prominent, the Cathedral of the Sovereign Host, a massive circular dome glistens in the moonlight. The weight of age is apparent even from the water. Reminiscent of Sharn, a suspended tower rises many levels above the rest of the city. Many of the stone buildings appear thousands of years old, their crumbling edifices displaying the decorative arts of a bygone age.

In general, the style of the city is heavy and symmetrical, with blocks set forth in a grid or radiating out from a central plaza. The militaristic influence that infuses all of Karrnath society permeates Korth and helps define the monolithic appearance of the buildings and decorative features such as monuments, obelisks, and tombs. A 35-foot high crenellated wall composed of huge basalt blocks surrounds Korth. Fort-five-foot tall towers jut from the wall at irregular intervals and each of the city's three gates sport 60-foot towers and additional defenses.

The southern gate separates the Docking Ward from the rest of the city. A contingent of twenty-five soldiers armed with crossbows guards each tower; all trained in the operation of ballistae positioned on the tower roofs. The largest tower houses a city watch station manned by twenty guards on shifting day-night cycles. Four statues of baying wolves the size of draft horses snarl a defiant warning to Korth's enemies.

A chilling blast of wind blows in from the North... the weather here is unsettling.

- couple guards at the gate, hustling travelers for coin

**Community Ward:** A monolithic tower hovers ominously, suspended above an area reminiscent of a park, though the vegetation is long dead. At a nearby apartment building, an elderly woman adorned in fine robes hums a whimsical tune while watering her garden. Her existence is almost out of place is this grim city. The city, of course, has a range of shops and stationary caravans selling various wares. An urban pulse beats through the heart of this metropolitan center. Here, a vibrant middle class runs shops and other businesses, engages in industrial labor, and takes advantage of everything that the largest cities east of Scions Sound have to offer. The folk here are dour and sturdy, wrapped in thick cloaks and striding with purpose towards their destinations. The streets are patrolled by soldiers with rustic armor and steel swords.

- **Bess Dorning** in Korth, Karnath; Silkweaver, sells to House Cannith (Class: Warlock) True Neutral, Friendly towards others; Alive and well, using magic to weave intricate silks. (shop: "Dorning Designs")
- **Yadira Dorning** – Four years ago, Yadira, younger sister of Robert (husband) tragically passed of exposure from a blizzard that rapidly arose while she was out gathering wood. Then, only one year ago, Josef, older brother of Robert (husband) tragically passed when a horse he was shoeing (he was a farrier) kicked him in the head.
- **Reynax Kryan** – She and Robert (husband) have held longtime friendship with Reynax, a dragonborn bureaucrat from Q’barra who serves as a permanent emissary to Karnath. They bonded over Reynax's appreciation for fine silkenware. (this will be a good connection for later travels to Q'barra)

Economy of Karrnath:

- Karrnath's exports: Sausage, ale, tobacco, paper, glass.
- Dorning's Designs: Silk, tapestries and tailoring house, mostly for commoners
- Blades of Karrn: major foundry and supplier to Karrnathi army
- Korth Armory: sells surplus army gear
- Bluefist of Mror: masterwork items and unusual materials, setup shop immediately after the M'ror holds declared independence;
    - they specialize in advanced arms, but they do not supply in bulk
- Necropolis of the Valiant: Korth's corpse collector headquarters
- Chandra the Seer: specializes in divination and illusion items
- Catalyst's Guild: material components
- ir'Alanso Clothiers: noble-sponsored tailoring house
- Lankuvorr Prospecting: expanded dwarven mining company
- Silver Hook: seedy wharside tavern with small congregation devoted to the Traveler
- New Frontiers Co.: specialized in expedition gear, especially for colder weather
- Library of Korranberg
- See Eberron Campaign Setting p. 113 for reference.

**Temple Ward:** The Temple Ward features winding streets dedicated to the many religions of Khorvaire; everything from small shrines to giant cathedrals can be found here, and some representative of even the most obscure cult probably finds a location to preach from within the walls of this ward. The eastern part of the Temple Ward seems moderately abandoned, especially during the day.

An icy drizzle loosens itself upon the streets shortly after leaving the enclosed space. While some streets are easily navigated, the lower districts wound their streets in confusing circles. Portions of the city had been damaged by siege weaponry during the Last War, but some building and streets had been rebuilt, resulting in a curious mosaic of old and new. The somberly-clad citizens give you reproachful glares as you pass through the ward.

**Cathedral of the Sovereign Host:** Royal blues and golden tapestries banner the walls of the grand entrance to the Cathedral. Above the archway, inscribed into the white stones are the words: As is the world, so are the gods. As are the gods, so is the world.

The main chapel includes pews or individual chairs for congregants. The front of the room is a raised platform, with nine floor. The precise height of the platform, and the depth of the steps, is irrelevant. Atop this platform is an area for the priest to stand-often, but not always, behind a podium of some sort - and an altar to display holy or ceremonial items, and on which to make sacrifices.

Aside the main chamber, you find a dimly lit hall leading to a starkly contrasting inner sanctum. The copper scent of blood hangs heavy in the air in this chamber of dark red marble. Pools of blood are spread across the floor illuminated by several dimly glowing red pillars that give off wispy vapors. Statues of four gargoyles each with mouths and claws dripping blood stand in alcoves around the chamber. Chalices of blood stand surrounding the altar. As you enter, a cloaked figure appears to be stacking the corpses of Fury worshippers onto a cart.

**Forge of the Sacred Spark**

An engraved circle nearly ﬁlls an apse at the north end, and three dedicated wrights labor over the sacred ﬂame it contains. Near the circle are two anvils, each marked with a recognizable emblem (a blend of Onatar’s and the Fury’s symbols), on which the sect’s crafters and artiﬁcers (and their dedicated wrights) produce works dedicated to their patrons. Shelves to either side hold metalworking tools, spell components, and other ingredients needed for forging.

Lore:

- **The Church of the Wyrm Ascendant** is a sect in the Five Nations that claims that the Sovereigns were dragons, and that the myths are based on the actual deeds of draconic champions and villains in the Age of Demons.

**Dal Quor:** You find yourself helplessly drifting in an abyss of chaotic material, a plane of flowing shadows, constantly shifting to reflect the subconscious desires of mortal minds. An enormous pig as large as an ox passes, its mouth bristles with mismatched tusks. Its body is a lopsided mass of tumorous flesh that gives way to eyes and vestigial mouths, and long tentacles trail from its sides. In a moments notice, the creature vanishes in an endless dark haze. Moments pass. A vaguely human-shaped apparition distorts the air. On closer examination, tiny letters and symbols inscribed in faintly glowing energy defines the lines of its figure. It shrieks upon your sight, imploding in a burst of electricity and flame.

Out of the abyssal horizon, a nightmarish creature slithers toward you. Its headless torso is cornered with eyes and twitching limbs. Two massive arms sprout from the top of the torso, ending in elongated pincers. The creature is covered with plates of black chitin and its serpentine tail sports a vicious stinger. In your mind, a terrible susurrus of nails on chalk and the drip and sizzle of venom on flesh form words: “This is not your world."

**Observatory of the Sovereign Host**:

- Radiolarian Telescope. In the centre of this room, strung-up like a tortured star, is a radial-symmetrical spiked prism of living crystal. On a table to the far east, beyond the moon-bronze door, is a collapsed curling matrix of clay, impossibly complex and strange. The walls of the room are covered with careful images of strange unearthly spectra. This is a Radiolarian, a simple single celled organism, survivor of several million years. The creature is quivering and close to death. It bleeds tiny drops of a clear fluid. All sixteen of its lower hemisphere spikes have been hooked with glass tubes to catch the drops.
- Altazimoth Reflectors This room has a rack on the southern wall, full of strange parabolic devices with moth cages radially arrayed. The Altazimoth reflector is a kind of telescopic device made to harness the power of the Azimoths. The moths are held in a ring. The user sights through this. They are reflected by a convex mirror with a central hole. The user sees, or would see, a small area of space through the hole in the centre and nothing else but mirrored moths. Because the moths refract the concept of the space which they occupy, the effect is quite different than simply blocking out space to focus on one part. The view has no negative space. The part focused upon expands to fill the entire awareness of the user. This is quite disconcerting but presents the user with the powerful impression of actually occupying the space they are looking at, as if they were walking around in it. In a sense they experience a kind of semi-astral projection to the focused space.
- Bookshelves of books on time, space, and inner planes and outer planes. There are low couches, tables, and ebony chairs. On the tables sit numerous strangely shaped glass jars. Inactive chemiluminescent lamps dot the walls. When shaken, they release a deep indigo light.

NPCs:

- Provost Nigel Faurious, very focused and lost in thought, socially awkward personality
- Ozetta Weaver, human woman, praying: "Through thy gift of goodness, Olladra, bestow upon us good fortune in our need."
- Albrecht Grayhands, male gnome artificer 5; the temple's high acolyte; oversees
- Maril d’Cannith, human learning metalworking and the ways of the Sacred Spark
- Kindle, Reforged who recently found his way to the Sacred Spark. He hopes to understand fleshbound life better through exploring creative passion. He has a pet cat, so far unnamed, a stray he rescued from a grimy alley, which he keeps in his room at all times. He loves to observe its pleasure in mere existence and is surprisingly tender with it.
- "When I found my lover murdered, I gave myself to the Fury. I don’t remember the rest of the night. But I regret nothing, and thank the Dark Lady that justice was done."

**Highcourt Ward:** The Highcourt Ward houses most of the government departments, as well as the halls of the royal family and some of the more affluent noble families. King Kaius III makes his bed here in Crownhome the royal estate. The Justice Ministry occupies a series of tall, if unremarkable, buildings in the shadow of King's Hill and the palace of Crownhome. What the architecture lacked in inspiration is offset by a panoply of military banners. The black, silver, and red of the Karrnathi flag are most prevalent, its wolf head embossed above the heavily-guarded gate (a legion of clerks and barristers within the Ministry hide within).

Built like a massive wall between two towering rock spires, Crownhome is as much military base as it is residence or seat of government. More than a thousand soldiers are garrisoned here, including elements of the White Lions city guard and the Conqueror’s Host, the king’s royal guard. The towers and roofs bristle with magical siege engines capable of reaching a full mile from the city walls. This part of the city is bustling with activity

It begins to rain at an oddly peaceful pace. The cascading lights of the everbright lanterns dotting the street corners fade in the accompanying foggy haze. A horse-drawn carriage rolls by. A well-dressed human family stops for a moment, the motherly figure taking her son's bird cage and opens up an umbrella. The youngest child with blonde curls caresses a familiar looking doll in her arms, her skin pale as moonlight.

The boy loos up to the mother, "Do I have to go to Rekkenmark Academy, mum?" "Yes, Joachim, your father has already signed the transfer papers. This is an opportunity, like it or not. Hurry now before the lightning rail departs!"

Wizard of Wines Winery, Red Dragon Crush, 331422-W

**Blackwood Chapel:** A seemingly ordinary chapel, a silver flame arrowhead encrusts the door's archway. You see only an empty room, barely lit by candlelight emanating from an upstairs room. You only hear the squeal of hinges and the creak of floorboards. The room appears empty, but a quick check reveals scapes on the floor and impressions in the dust that suggest furniture was pushed around recently and then moved back into place. A faint scent, vaguely fruity, hangs in the air, noticeably as you move away from the front door. The cupboards are fully stocked. Dishes stand stacked behind the stove, in which the fire has gone cold and a bit of beef lies seared to the charcoal.

As you approach the stairs, you can detect the faintest sound of dripping water. The stairs creep as you climb them. Near the top of the stairs, something black scuttles out of the shadows and races across the floor! No, it's just.. a rat... a rat with something in its mouth, something that smears a wet trail across the wooden slats of the second-story floor. A strange flickering light, like that of guttering candles, leaks out into the hall from a door only slightly ajar.

A constant background noise rises from the walls around you. It takes a moment to recognize, but eventually the sounds of chittering and buzzing can be picked out from among the cacophony. It's not unlike the sound of insects in the King's Forest, except that the chamber seems to amplify and echo the noise in disturbing ways... A dark carpet slides across the dusty floor moving toward you. No, not a carpet, but a mass of squirming chittering, shiny black beetles. They seem into the cracks and crevices in the walls. Gone.

The fruit-like scent is stronger here, but it's almost lost amid a much stronger miasma, something coppery and acrid and too familiar to anyone who has ever seen battle. And in a split moment, the aura vanishes and a fragrant scent of incense roams through the air. As you open the door, a flash of fire and you find yourselves in an upper study, an elven man suddenly present, diligently writing in a booklet of Karrnathi parchments.

- Home of the **Penitent Brethren:** This sub-sect of Purified, consisting largely of shifters, believes that its members are innately creatures of evil. The shifters see themselves as tainted with the lycanthropic curse, while the few non-shifter members consider themselves cursed in some other way. (Warforged might believe themselves incapable of anything but killing, for instance.) They join the Silver Flame in an effort to atone, and seek injury and even death in its service as punishment for their innate sins.
- Tent city inside the Blackwood Chapel, some shadows from the tents. Outside, a single warforged stands guard.

NPCs:

- **Taraak** "Half-Ear": Deadgrim, Red Watcher (half-orc), ex-Ghash'kaala, exiled (called "too weak to serve the Flame")
- **Sarava Glioush**: Deadgrim, Red Watcher, Silver Flame. She would like to see a firmer tie between the CoSF and the Red Watchers; most watchers believe that would result in restricted freedom.
- **Akaana Lightwind** (halfling rogue, paladin, deadgrim): Among her peers, Akaana Lightwind is considered one of the more powerful and advanced deadgrim. She is frequently contacted for Red Watcher missions in and around Korth and Atur, since she is quite familiar with both cities. Attacked and slain by a dread wraith as a child, she was saved from becoming a wraith herself only by the timely intervention of a cleric of the Silver Flame, Darwin Albatross. In the time since, she has dedicated her life to that power, though not before learning skills on the streets of Korth that have aided her long hunt.
- **Verbane Istivin:** primary contact, ex-Silver Flame pyromancer; now a Blood of Vol chief wizard. Operating under disguise as a priest of the Penitent Brethren. He should inform them of Lucan's apparent appearance in the city of Atur; "I can arrange an Orien carriage to take you there." (offered 3000 gold for retrieval of soul blade - offer reconsidered)
- **Sherivah Wistthorne** - shifter, mother of two children, seeking temporary refuge

Two White Lions dragging a manacled captive toward the open gates of the Ministry. He was dark haired, like most Karrns, and wore a leather jerkin, clad in black, with an unruly, if athletic bearing. He looked like a soldier gone rogue. The man struggled, uttering unfamiliar curses. A White Lion sergeant stopped them. “Report,” he said. One of the Lions renewed his grip on the captive’s arm. “This piece of human swine accosted a merchant when the merchant refused to sell to him.” “Lower rabble,” the other added with disgust and patted a small scabbard on his belt. “When we intervened, he displayed this blade and said he’d stick us if we ‘laid a hand upon him.’ ” The sergeant looked the disheveled man in the eyes. “Is this true? Did you resist arrest?” “Go to Khyber, white kitty,” the man cursed, spitting in the sergeant’s face. The White Lion nodded stolidly. He drew the confiscated knife from the other soldier’s belt without wiping his face. “You do not refute the crime and are therefore guilty,” he said in a loud voice, “so let’s not waste the magistrate’s time, eh?” He pulled one side of the rogue’s jerkin aside and slashed the long blade across the man’s stomach. Citizens on the street quickened their paces, none lingering to watch. The two soldiers let the man drop. With his wrists manacled, the captive couldn’t even try to stanch the bleeding. As he writhed upon the cobbles, the soldiers watched for several long seconds. Then the sergeant stabbed the criminal again, this time at the base of the neck. His pain ended. “Another one for the corpse collectors,” the sergeant said, an order as much as a declaration.

**Ebonspire**, a fifteen-story high black stone tower. During the sunless hours the towers looked like a great cluster of stalagmites, pitted with glowing lights and webbed together with bridges for the flightless. The sky is exceedingly dark. Cold fire lanterns light even the major street junctions in the Low District Ward, but here they are markedly absent. The Ebonspire itself matches the city’s symmetrical architecture, with smooth stone walls adorned only at its edges, sills, and eaves. The ground level is broad, but further in it rose nine stories high, yet dwarfed by the tower blocks on either side of the estate. The whole structure presents a regal, throne-like appearance. There is a profusion of rain spouts carved to resemble crows, and the silver-painted cornices which run beneath every roof possess a featherlike design. A razor-edged fence frames the estate like a row of stylized iron glaives, conjoined by a pair of black gates that swing gently upon approach. A short path circled around a dry fountain. A vulture-headed stone demon towers at its center, glaring from its frozen perch. The statue’s eyes, inlaid spheres of glass, are encircled with a crimson light—the only exterior illumination around the manor. A faint aura, a ward of sorts, appears to surround each archway leading into the interior of the monumental building.

Known as the Ebonspire, it caters to the noble and the privileged, housing esteemed citizens and honored guests alike. It is also considered nigh impenetrable. The sentries and magic wards that guarded the tower’s occupants ensured that whatever you're after had better be worth the risk. Every story of the Ebonspire included four flats, each overlooking Korth in one of the cardinal directions from a wide balcony. You're able to scrutinize the nearest balconies, points of access. The curtains are drawn along a door, admitting no light from within.

A singular White Lion guards awaits outside, walking the parapets. A long-hafted battle-axe rests within the White Lion’s reach against the tower wall, and he holds a longbow in hand. His posture rigid.

“Intruder!” the guard shouts, staring down at you. The man’s head was covered with a broad helmet, his voice loud and resonant. One thick-fingered hand gripped the railing, while the other held the sword, poised to kill. He wore heavy plate armor, with a steel buckler on his left forearm. No, not armored—not in the conventional sense. The guard was a warforged, a living construct given life during the Last War and the illusion of freedom at war’s end—now expected to settle down into the fragile peace. In Karrnath they’d never achieved even the “freedom” offered by the other nations.

Peering through the glass door and the narrow slit between the curtains, you can see a darkened bedroom with whisplight from a common room beyond spilling in. The sculptures that line the corridor are set upon matching pedestals of gray marble. Most are works of metal or stone, some abstract and unappealing to look upon, while others are realistic, pleasing depictions. Every piece contains some component of glass—an hourglass in the arms of a marble beggar, a monocle affixed to the gold bust of an elderly scholar, even a single fingernail in the closed fist of a soldier cast in bronze. The laughter of children startles you. “Papa,” said the voice of a child. “It’s cold here!” Another voice joined the conversation, the assertive voice of a mother. “Rennet, take this blanket. Gamnon, you really should make a fire.”

A figure appears in the room behind you, slipping through the balcony door just as you had. Veiled head to foot in black wrappings, the intruder is lithe and tall. Catching the gleam of metal gauntlets beneath the linen, but you can't see any eyes exposed. From the supple form, you'd guess she is a woman. The shrouded figure strides gracefully past you as though she hadn't heard you at all. Steel blades, as long and slender as rapiers, appear suddenly in each of her mailed fists. Whether an act of magic or mere sleight of hand, the weapons look real enough.

"Who dares?!" comes a furious voice from the next room over. Responding to the alarm, a well-dressed steward appeared in the doorway with a half-drawn blade of his own. The cloth-wrapped intruder thrust both rapiers into the man’s torso—one in his stomach, the other near his collar—making not even a grunt in the motion. Sputtering blood, the steward topples. The intruder steps into the room beyond without hesitation.

NPCs:

- **Gamnon ir'Daresh**: Brelish Ambassador, murdered
- **Soneste Otänsin**: human Inquisitor of Sharn's Intelligence Services
- **Arend ir'Montevik**, aristocrat from the city of Atur; charitable and religious benefactor (BoV), smuggling powerful necromantic scrolls. (current target for Syndra)

**The Nightwood Forest ~ Willowbrook Sanitarium**

**RECAP,** 14th Barrakas, 1016 YK

Previously in Eberron, you arrived at the gothic, capital city of Karrnath, Korth. In interrogating Roewyn Atalast, you were informed of his most recent vision, a scene involving luminescent green religious iconography and a menacing flesh golem guarding what appeared to be the body of Lucan Stellos. Looking for clues, you investigated the Temple Ward, discovering the Cathedral of the Sovereign Host. Snorri, ecstatically taking upon himself the opportunity to worship the Fury, discovered why one should never assault a high priest of any religion, finding himself banished to an alternate plane for 12 hours. What appeared to be the Library of Korranberg became illusory shortly after entry. Responding to the cryptic message you received on the ship, you found Blackwood Chapel, an abandoned, desecrated chapel once devoted to the Silver Flame. Taraak, an orc wearing the rustic, battle-torn armour of the Silver Flame Templar, greeted you, informing you of those in residence at the chapel, the Penitent Brethren. Verbane Istivin, a suspicious half-elf, seemingly the local priest, requested your retrieval of the Soul Blade, but now you know, Lucan Stellos was last seen in Atur, the City of Night. Through Verbane Istivin, you resigned to send Captain Viorr Malak a message regarding the difficulties of your travels, yet assuring your continued loyalty to the cause. Through House Orien, you arranged your travels through the Nightwood Forest via stagecoach. The first day of your travels, the wreckage of a horse-drawn carriage came into view. What you would discover to be Karrnathian bulletes attacked, executing the House Orien mage-bred horses with a single swipe of its oozing claws. In the aftermath of the battle, the trotting of horse hoofs brought an elderly Silver Flame friar and his granddaughter, coming from the city of Atur, and by the friar's generosity, you find yourselves once more on your way, an evening twilight engulfing the dusk sky.

Monsters and other foul creatures roam the heart of the Nightwood, sometimes slipping into the more benign regions and occasionally even out of the forest to threaten the farms and villages nearest the forest’s edge. Legends claim that a great chasm lies at the center of the Nightwood, an oozing pit that drops away to the depths of Khyber itself (actually it's a manifest zone which leads to Xoriat). All forms of conjuration magic, planar travel and teleportation spells are prevented due to the Gatekeeper's dimensional seal.

**NPCs:**

- **Father Ruhl Faulaval** (SF cleric) : He has a bald head and brown eyes. He has a diamond-shaped, ordinary face with a long gray beard. He smokes the pipe sporadically. Traveling pilgrim and merchant, leaving that "dreaded place, traveling with my granddaughter", "I pray the Silver Flame keep our travels safe"; knows how to cure lycanthropy, wolfsbane can be found in the Nightwood, though the plant is dead, thus requiring a plant growth spell or similar... a cult of Children of Winter druids exist near the center of the Nightwood, magically treating the manifest zone to Xoriat. "I will need wolfsbane The weed is easily identifiable - violet flowers on long stems. They grow in the gullies on the west side of the Nightwood; sometimes along the streams. If you can provide the magic, I can administer the herb."
- **"Prissy" Priscilla** : shy, She has very long, straight, brown hair and blue eyes. She is very direct. She takes everything at face-value. She never surrenders. She cannot tolerate rough living conditions.
- **Twilight Stardust** (pixie): She wears a natural, weather-torn dress shaded a somber, gray-touched violet, her wings a gradient of violet and black, the pattern reminiscent of a moth. She glows with a faint, soft pink aura. Her head is adorned with a crown of thorns on either side connected at her forehead by a midnight blue gem. She seems very unsure of where she is, having just passed through a manifest zone escaping Thellanis in fear.

**Bleak Harvest**

Story:

Over the past three months as Deocar performed his mission, life at the facility worsened. Several patients slipped into catatonia, while others erupted into mania. Little by little, the atmosphere and the mood changed for the darker. People heard inexplicable voices and saw shadows move without cause. Everyone, patient or otherwise, came to doubt their sanity. Unwilling to remain, most of the staff abandoned their posts. The patients remained as virtual prisoners and continued to deteriorate. Working in secret, Deocar has paved the way for an upcoming ceremony. His goal is to gather 25 sacrificial victims to be fed to the Lord of the Wood’s servant—an alien being known as a Dark Young of Shub-Niggurath. To facilitate this, Deocar has imprinted countless eldritch marks throughout the sanitarium and the surrounding grounds. These marks pollute the area with dark magic that corrupts the mind and twists the soul. A few of these marks, strategically placed at the front entrance to the grounds, served to keep out new arrivals—including couriers and guards sent by the king in recent weeks. Each night, he sneaks one of the patients out of the sanitarium to the forest clearing where they are driven insane by the power of the Dark Young.

The foliage around you is dense and tough, with bloodvines winding around and between the darkwood trees, but the path you’re on is cleared and well worn. Before you lies a cobblestone road passing through an entryway, overgrown tangle of brush and trees barely contained by a crumbling plaster wall. Arching over the road atop the 15-foot gate posts is a wrought iron sign with block letters that reads WILLOWBROOK. A light rain begins to dampen your gear, as the chilling bite of the Karrnathi winter pierces your skin. Lying in the road are four corpses—the putrid remains of the royal detachments.

A successful DC 10 Medicine check identifies the cause of death in the form of numerous tiny exit wounds, suggestive of something burrowing out from the flesh.

A strange, prickling sensation runs along your arms, shoulders, chest, and the back of your neck. At first, it tickles, but the intensity increases until it burns. Swollen red blisters erupt from your arms. Before you can act, the burning intensifies until it feels like something chewing through muscle and tissue. Bulging, wriggling worm-like shapes shift underneath your skin until you literally watch your flesh crawl.

A successful DC 15 Investigation / Perception check locates one of a secret mark hidden underneath the ivy vines on one of the entryway gateposts. A character can deface and thereby deactivate one of the marks with 1d6 minutes of effort and a DC 15 thieves’ tools or Intelligence (Arcana) skill check. A mark so defaced returns intact 24 hours later unless removed by dispel magic (DC 14). Defacing or eliminating a secret mark ends both the hallow effect and the fleshworm infestation. (CON DC 14, 2d8 necrotic + 1d8 each round following, saving throw at end of turn can be repeated).

**Treasure.** Two of the bodies wear masterwork chainmail [treat this armor as normal chainmail armor of high quality] and possess a shield and +1 longsword, one wears a squire’s livery, while the last possesses +1 studded leather, +1 short sword, 2 flasks of holy water, and a half-consumed potion of healing. Each body possesses an official writ from the king endorsing them as an officer of the court.

As the immense, three-story manor comes into view you see it is as dilapidated as the front gate—once-white rendering on the outer walls is now a dark mix of yellow and green mold, while moss gathers on the slate roofs. The marble adorning the front steps and entry is pitted and dull, and the glass behind every barred window has been broken out and fitted with misshapen pieces of wood which seem to have been hastily nailed over their enclosures. Thick roils of wood smoke drift down through still air from one of the eight chimneys and envelop the area like a veil.

NPCs:

- **Dr. Von Shrugal**, governess
- **Nurse Velah Nauls**, Head Nurse of Willowbrook Sanitarium, previously a priestess of the Blood of Vol; she is able to cast Resurrection, by the Odakyr rights
- **Deocar Foedo**, middle-aged acolyte, suffered a series of tragedies: lost his wife during childbirth, the priests failed to save either the child or mother; serves the Dark Tapestry, the Dark Young, a child of Shub-Niggurath which accepts sacrifices to usher in its mother; assists Nurse Velah Nauls
- **"Duke Berard", Karrnathian** warlord and grandson of King Kaius I (the actual King Kaius III, submitted to the sanitarium under the imposed alias "Duke Berard"); hospital patient for almost a year; suffers multiple personality disorder as an escapism to avoid his duties to the crown

**The Gatekeeper's Song ~ Conclave of Gatekeeper & Children of Winter* Druids**

Darting off between a gap between the bushes, a well-trodden route begins to weave its way through tapestries of foliage and twisting oaken trees. The path has an impression of the footprints of many wildlife, exotic and unnatural. The track continues through sparse woodland for perhaps a mile without any sign of habitation. Eventually appearing through the treetops of the far-off forest, houses appearing to be formed from the living branches of gargantuan trees jut out through the canopy. The wood itself appears to have been shaped and woven to create three platforms, the lowest of which is roughly 40ft off the ground. Branches curl around its base creating a bowl shape around it, flowers growing around its edge. Evenly spaced, window-sized spaces serve to bring natural light into the enclosed spaces. Behind the conclave, a range of mountainous rock rises naturally from the soil. The entire complex appears somewhat illusory, enveloped in an ethereal ward.

The ground level of the conclave includes 3 rest areas, a kitchen, and a small devoted study with works on the interconnectedness of the planes.

Underpass. Damp and crumbled steps descend sharply down an 8-foot high stone corridor. Twigs and roots are piled on the floor of this sagging chamber. The collapsed southern wall opens into a vast cavern. Luminescent fungus on the rough walls and the high roof loom over a twilight grove of sickly briars, bushes, saplings, and other woody plants. Ruined walls and hollow towers protrude from the briars. The underpass leads to set of double doors.

Galegal's Laboratory. Two rows of carved marble columns march the length of the hall, most completely covered in luminescent fungus. The cobbled floor is cracked and stained, and on it sit many small wooden tables. The contents on the tables include mortars and pestles, small tools, bowls filled with crushed leaves, chopped fungus stalks, and other plant specimens. The many doors leading off this hall are all partly open.

**Investigating**. The containers on the small tables in the main area hold mashed leaves, fungus, bark, and powdered roots. A character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence (Nature) check identifies many common varieties of tree, shrub, and fungus, although all have a pronounced pallor, as if sun-starved.

**Treasure**. One pile of herbs and supplies in the main chamber contains the ingredients of a healer's kit. An assortment of tools and herbs can be salvaged to make up a herbalism kit and a set of alchemist's supplies.

Galegal's Study. A layer of soil covers the floor. Rough wooden shelves, filled with a scattering of tomes and scrolls, line the north and east walls, and a rough-hewn desk stands in the center of the chamber. Fungus on the ceiling provides light, apparently in sufficient quantity to nourish several small bushes and pale saplings that grow in the soil.

**Investigating**. In his study, Galegal stores seasonal records of growth, precipitation, harvests, and similar notes for the surrounding lands for the last dozen years. One interesting tome titled (in Draconic) Treasures of the Fire Lords has a glyph of warding spell with an explosive runes effect on it. The glyph is on the second page, and it's triggered when someone opens to that page. Otherwise, the book is blank. If the glyph is triggered, it erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on the book. The sphere spreads around corners. Each creature in the area must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 22 (5d8) cold damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. The cold doesn't damage the other works here. Development. If any obvious disturbance occurs here, the goblins in area 54 set an ambush for intruders. They wait at least 10 minutes before coming to investigate.

**Treasure**. Separate successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) checks uncover a spell scroll of entangle, a spell scroll of protection from poison, and a tome on druidic theories on the cycle of life and death (worth 150 gp).

The Central Garden. Luminescent fungus, shedding violet light, clings to the walls and ceiling of this wide cavern. The air is damp, chilly, and redolent with the odors of loam and decay. A layer of earth, mixed with rotting vegetation and the remains of cave animals, covers the floor. Several varieties of mushrooms and fungi grow on the detritus, as well as a few saplings.

**Creatures**. Two robed **skeletons** (AC 12) serve Galegal by tending a fungus garden, using shovels and a rusted wheelbarrow to turn the soil and spread compost. In addition, two mature **twig blights** are rooted in the garden. The twig blights ambush intruders that aren't recognizable, and the skeletons attack (with shovels, 1d6 bludgeoning damage) anything that the twig blights target.

The Great Hunter's Abode. The floor of this rough cavern is stained and smells of blood and animal musk. Light from glowing fungus reveals the eastern niche, which holds a pallet of matted furs, a wide wooden board on which a variety of weapons are affixed, and a great cloak of patchy black fur hung on a slender pole. To the edge of the niche are two large nests made of hair, dry fungus, and refuse.

**Creature**. Balsag the bugbear and his two giant rat "hounds," named Grip and Fang, reside in a natural stone chamber when they're not hunting (25 percent chance of being absent when characters arrive). The bugbear wears a crown of antlers on his head to enhance his frightening appearance.

**Treasure**. Two spears, six javelins, one longsword, one greatsword are affixed to the weapon rack. A box hidden under one of the furs in Balsag's bedding, requiring a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to notice, contains 241 sp and 54 gp.

Garden Galleries. Nodules of luminescent fungus hang from the ceiling and walls and grow in clumps on the flagstone floor. The light illuminates portions of grand bas-relief carvings on the stone walls that aren't covered with the fungus. The carvings depict dragons in various stages of raining fire down upon terrified people. Soil and compost cover half the chamber's floor, which allows a variety of feeble plants to grow. A bench containing simple gardening implements stands along the west wall.

The Inner Sanctum. Deep underground, granite blocks line this chamber's walls and ceiling, though many are crumbled and broken, leaving stony debris on the floor. Within this inner sanctum, a towering, ominously hovering stone monument covered with an intricately complex pattern of weaving runes and sigils glows a faint white aura. The granite walls are embroidered with similar lines and patterns as the runes, spreading from floor to ceiling.

[http://keith-baker.com/druids-in-eberron/](http://keith-baker.com/druids-in-eberron/)

** CoW druids seek to contain contaminated areas, disease (such as lycanthropy) is a means to purge out the weak (form of survival of the fittest)... unlike most CoW druids, these dru9ids claim to seek to prevent the great cleansing (imminent destruction)... This is a lie. They are acting on behalf of BoV, awaiting their call to destroy the dimensional seal for the dawning of the Age of Twilight.

NPCs

- **Galegal Aeraagamae** is a 245 year old male firbolg Gatekeeper druid, oversees the conclave. He has extremely long, straight, white hair, gray eyes and a rugged green skin. Initially from the outskirts of Stormreach; his home was destroyed in an earthquake.
- **Althalos Crewe** is a 53 year old male half-orc CoW druid. He has a bald head, gray eyes and a massive build. He is a very proficient herbalist. He has been outcast for a murder he committed.
- **Finethil Talthanryl** is a 249 year old male drow CoW druid. He has very long, curled, white hair shaved on the right side and brown eyes. He has smooth black skin.
- **Bess Hillless** is a 26 year old female shifter druid. She has long, wavy, auburn hair in twin braids shaved on the left side and black eyes.

**Gatekeeper's Quest**

- perhaps to prove trustworthiness before they perform the reincarnation?
- Idea 1) Hunting Colony of "Mi-Go" (ToB)
    - These creatures have established a colony not more than a mile from Willowbrook inside a (now) abandoned mine and as part of a ruined keep. The colony grows by the day, and the mi-go have been busy kidnapping specimens and studying the kingdom and its inhabitants for their own inscrutable purposes, although it may have something to do with an ancient relic buried deep inside the mine. To help spark such an adventure, the characters can find a couple clues on the creatures’ bodies pointing to the nearby colony, including some trinkets known to come from a local shrine near where the colony stands, or bits and pieces of raw iron ore taken from the mine.
    - perhaps, one of the Gatekeepers was kidnapped by the Mi-Go for research
- Idea 2) From maintaining constant concentration on the dimensional seal preventing the encroachment of Xoriat, one of the Gatekeepers goes mad... Dr. Who murdering plausability?

**Children of Winter ritual.** Seven druids stand on the points of a large pentagram mirrored left to right with one point being longer and larger. Two fangs, two halves of the heart of an ancient ent and a rustic dagger lay beside the arcanic runes encompassing the pentagram. The cultists danced the somatic components of their ritual and the magic they summoned shone a brilliant blue and white, first through the eyes then the veins. You can feel it seep into you, a rusty, iron flavor, followed by a piercing prick as your fur sprouts from your skin, every bone in your body cracking and elongated. The dancers on the left and the right continue the dance as your vision blurs, the woman holding her hands clutching the dagger over her breast. Your teeth fall from your mouth as fangs take root, your senses affixed on the sweet smell of sweat, you can almost taste the druids' rusty blood, but the chains hold firm no matter how hard you lash and at the peak of fury the dancers stopped and with them your bones, your flesh, your heart. Paralyzed you watch the still woman take her first few steps, rubbing her hand from your ear, down the cheek and along your chest before stopping at the stomach where she suddenly thrusts the dagger in deep, cutting your torso upward, through the sternum and neck reaching in.

Your fingers being slipping through clawed paws and furred muscle as if they were naught but a wet sleeve, there were a few seconds of darkness, as your head is pulled from the gashed carcass. Freedom. A woolen blanket is placed over your gore encrusted skin as the cultists usher out.

The scene of a noblewoman tossing a fur coat onto a child, standing outside the walls of a city. "The full moon rises tonight, my son,” said the noblewoman to her boy, a child of only three winters. She pulled her furs around her shoulders, the frigid twilight air chilled her to the bone, despite the accursed boiling of her blood. Even a full day away, the waxing moon goaded her to succumb and submit to the power of the wolf. She knelt down and looked her son in the face, and gripped his hand tightly. “Remember what I’ve taught you. Every day, you resist this curse. And every day I’m proud of you. But tonight, you will not be able to resist. When the moon rises in the sky…” She twitched, and her nails, even now beginning to grow into long, pearly claws, dug into her son’s palm. The boy yelped and recoiled. His blood trickled down his arm until the wispy, gray-black fur growing upon his skin halted its flow. He put the edge of his palm into his mouth to stem the bleeding. His mother stepped forward to pull his hand from his mouth, but stopped when a shadow fell over him. A figure stood atop the battlements, eclipsing the setting sun and casting the boy in darkness. The figure dressed in the clothes of a man, but his limbs were long and hairy. His knees bent the wrong way, and his nails were long and dagger-sharp. His nose extended into a muzzle covered with blood-matted fur. “Don’t fill our son’s head with such lies.” The noblewoman stared defiantly up at the werewolf that loomed above her only child. She retorted with a bestial snarl. “You stay away from him.” She reached for her belt and drew a silver-edged dagger and almost retched from the sickening stench of the silver. She leveled it at her former husband with a trembling arm. “Don’t take another step closer.” “My boy,” the werewolf said smilingly, “Your sweet mother has taught you to fight so hard, but for what? To lose control on the night of the full moon?” He hopped down from the crenellation he was perched upon and strode towards the boy. “I’ve accepted my curse. I’ve accepted freedom. Your mother is stifling your spirit with her idiotic rules. Give in to your curse. Flee from this castle with its gates and walls and run through the midnight forests at my side. Don’t make tonight’s full moon more painful than it must be.” “I said, get away!” roared the noblewoman. She lunged at the man, and the silver dagger dropped from her hand as her entire body stretched and distended, growing hairy and silver. Before the man could react, a monstrous wolf wearing the tattered remains of a nightgown was upon him, snarling and tearing into his flesh with razor-sharp claws. As the werewolves fought, their son fled. Their battle raged until the moon rose high into the night sky, and the dark forest echoed with a chorus of bestial howls.

### **Atur, the City of Night**

---

DM Note: With the city’s temple to the Blood of Vol (called the Crimson Monastery) and its massive Vaults of the Dead, where corpse collectors store the fodder for Karrnath’s undead armies, Atur has a definite connection to the twilight and midnight hours. The City of Night has a rhythm and pulse that seems to increase when the sun goes down. Fest halls, taverns, theaters, and bordellos of all descriptions open their doors after dark and stay active until the sun struggles back up and over the mountains. The city seems to operate in a way opposite to the other metropolitan centers of the Five Nations.

**The Sinking City**

The city appears partially submerged; the road leads straight into the murky water of an extensive lake like a strange boat launch. There is no clear shore; the grass simply continues from dry land into the water. To the north, a high ridge looms, topped with trees. Stands of trees emerge from the water here and there—those farther away barely reach the ends of their leafy branches above the water. On the opposite shore, a stone spire rises from the water. Once suspended electrical wires descend along a hillside to the water's edge. Moss covered buildings appear to be completely submerged. An iridescent effect appears as a smear across an otherwise dim, though transparent water surface.

**RECAP,** 16th Barrakas, 1016 YK

**Atur.** Enclosed by the peaks of the Ashen Spires, the city of Night lives up to his its name, completely cast in shadow. Atur lies shrouded in gloom, a nearly perpetual twilight that gives the city its moniker. The Karn Falls spill from the mountains, overflowing into the city. The close peaks of the Ashen Spires, the constant mist rising off the swirling waters of the Karrn, and the oppressive brick buildings make for a place that has relatively short periods of direct daylight and consequently long nights. Embedded into the mountainside, a dark series of towers juts out like a suspended fortress ("Nighthold"). A three spire, pyramidal building made of blood-red brick and ebon-black mortar seems to faintly glow with Atur's twilight dominating Atur's cityscape. The rest of the buildings appear unmaintained, many still damaged from the war; the brick and stone edifices reflect a long-lasted civilization. (HIS 20 "built in measureless eons ago by what is believed to have been vast, loathsome shapes that seeped down from the dark stars.”) An ominous lake fronts the city and within its dark, murky waters appear buildings, as if part of the city itself had been submerged. The cobblestone road even trails off, dipping into the water; a thin layer of mist lingers above the still glass-like pane.

You have found safe haven at the Devil’s Reef, a waterside, half-timbered building with several shuttered windows, its shore-facing side looks to have been recently refashioned with a different make of wood, suspended above the water by extensive stilts. Upon entering, you noticed a woman, dressed in a noble visage, outside nearing the water’s edge, bowing in seemingly reverence of the strange phenomenon. In a sudden moment, the woman collapsed, blood pooling around her skull indicating signs of internal bleeding. Promptly she was stabalized but just before resting for the night, a parasytic manifestation diverged from the noble woman’s skull, an unrecognizable entity. The whole event was a curious spectacle, but surely an irrelevant distraction. Somewhere in this forsaken city is your target, a rogue agent of the Dark Lanterns wielding a stolen weapon, a valuable artifact according to a number of interested parties, but the whereabouts of this agent within the city remains somewhat unknown.

woman: Akai ir'Arkenen

**Devil's Reef.** A lopsided sign, the post barely hanging onto its stake states 'Consanguine Way.' On the edge of the water, stands a modest half-timbered building, with several shuttered windows, its shore-facing side looks to have been recently refashioned with a different make of wood, suspended above the water by extensive stilts. A stylistic, blinking neon sign hanging above the building indicates "Devil's Reef" and an olive green banner is hoisted outside with the heraldic mark of House Ghallanda. A lean and dull-scaled ash drake perches on the chimney as if it just crawled out, its tail still hanging into the chimney as smoke billows out. Several battered shields hang on the walls. Accommodations consist of several wooden cots in the cellar.

```
Exploring the City. Passing through the city, the pedestrians are all but the normal city-folk of places like Sharn. Malformed, goblin-like, humanoids pass by bearing one large, strange eye in the middle of its face, wearing dark and dirty rags, their spindly claws and arms match their hunched torsos. A black horse strides out of the shadows with its nostrils huffing steam. Its rider, swathed in black leather, raises his arm to reveal not a lantern but its own severed, grinning head. With skin stretched like vellum over wizened limbs, a desiccated humanoid form clad in splendid regalia emerges from a funerary tower. Suddenly, the air around you becomes so dry as to make your eyes sting and lips crack. The ethereal spirit of a child walks by aimlessly, drips of bloods leaving the gaps of her eye sockets. Overhead, a mass of fused corpses resembling a butterfly with wings of skin, limbs of bone, and a head formed of several different skulls glides above you. The dark magic that formed this abomination swirls around it hungrily. Afflicted beggars with pale skin and blood-shot eyes plead for coin almost obnoxiously. A passerby grumbles under their breath, begrudgingly passing through the group saying "Get out of my way, outsider."

```

**[http://aeryk.wikidot.com/atur:city-of-night](http://aeryk.wikidot.com/atur:city-of-night)**

The **Temple of Dol Dorn** is fashioned after a fortress, in fact it served as one in the Battle of Atur. Red stained glass circles the ceiling bathing the interior in crimson light in the day and trap the light of day to glow in the night. Obsidian benches circle the statue of Dol Dorn carved of red marble. Dol Dorn is depicted holding open the jaws of a great wolf with one hand and foot while he stabs down the beast’s throat with his sword.

The **Temple of Dol Arrah**, a beacon of light in the darkness of the city. The temple stands out as one of the few buildings lit by everburning lanterns. The center of the temple is dominated by a mixed marble statue of Dol Arrah and her two brothers. She is pictured comforting Dol Dorn as he crouches over The Mockery’s flayed body. The Mockery and his spilt blood is rendered in black marble, Dol Dorn in striated red marble and Dol Arrah in pure white.

With increased trade redirected from Karrlakton, construction has begun in **Boskage Ward** to expand the city. The first additions were upgraded docks and a House Orien guildhall is also nearly completed. A somewhat functional shadow gate has been installed, but with intermittent failures it hasn’t been open to the public yet.

**[http://aeryk.wikidot.com/antecessor-district](http://aeryk.wikidot.com/antecessor-district)**

"Orthodox economists of that period, Jevons typifies the prevailing trend towards scientific correlation. His attempt to link the commercial cycle of prosperity and depression within the physical cycle of the solar spots forms perhaps the apex of civilization.”

**Briarstone Asylum**

A cryptic, shadowy architecture... a statue inscribed with the name Eowyn Moira rests outside dividing two stairwells leading up to the entrance.

NPC's

1. Elliege d'Jorasco - administrator of Briastone Asylum
2. Airwynn d'Jorasco - A halfling with bandages around her upper torso and her right arm in a sling. She seems to be in great pain, and is resting on a makeshift pallet near the alter. Airwynn is an employee of House Jorasco and part of the asylum’s support staff. She suffered a broken arm and fractured ribs when she was almost crushed by a collapsing wall during the quakes, but is knowledgeable about the grounds and operation of the furnace and boilers.
3. Tolban Leolies - Handsome, young halfling wearing the uniform of a healer's assistant. He seems protective of the chapel survivors.
4. Bates Zenden - Young, human boy (Aundarian) in commoner's clothing, a cloth shirt and overalls, wrapped in bandages that cover his bite marks. A new patient, Bates was only at Briarstone a couple of weeks when the revolt by the patients overtook the asylum. Some of the more violent patients attacked him, but he was pulled to safety by [Mura](https://eberron-39.obsidianportal.com/characters/mura-zenden), another survivor in the chapel. Bates suffers from regular seizures. His condition worsens without regular medication, which is alchemical in nature.
5. Mura Zenden - A young woman (Aundarian) who seems unable to speak. Mura is a mute, distrustful patient who has lived in the asylum for twelve years. Protective of Bates.
6. Winter Kalacka - (Changling, Royal Eyes) A young woman with onyx black hair adorned in oil black leathers and a cloak. Leader of the Chapel Survivors.
7. Ulver Zandalus - A younger Aundairian man, Zandalus was a student at the University of Wynarn. A talented writer, researcher, and artist, he studied ancient empires including Dhakaan and the giant kingdoms of Xen’drik. Two years ago, Zandalus went on an expedition with his mentor, Doctor Hargo Meirtmane. He was chosen despite his inexperience in the field, in a large part due to his ability to artistically recreate vistas and cityscapes of ancient sites. The destination was a recently unearthed giant ruin in Xen’drik. Unfortunately, the Zandalus that departed Khorvaire did not return the same. Caused patients to riot.
8. Juglan Rivercane - Incoherent patient saved from death Juglan is incapable of speaking coherently, and often repeats the same phrases over and over again. He wears a yellow-dyed curtain like a robe, and has a chalk-paste symbol drawn on his head. A veteran of the Last War, Juglan suffers from aphasia, although House Jorasco healers have yet to find a way of treating his ailment. For years, he has been unable to communicate with anyone. Now that he has communicated mind-to-mind with Thakharad, he has finally been able to speak with another person. This does not mean he is willing to speak of everything.
9. Isa Weed - Blonde, human woman. Patient at Briarstone for several years in the East Ward of the facility. Turned into a doppelganger; proceeded to eat rations until a shortage to terrorize other patients.
10. Maeve Kosten - half-elf boy with curly, long brown hair and forest green eyes. Patient at Briarstone; part of the orphanage.
11. Baisley ir'Haldron - Young human woman with long, straight blonde hair and a dazzling emerald tied around her neck. The Haldron noble family of Passage always knew that Baisley was a bit simple, but keeping her at home with a nanny was a simple way of protecting both her and the family reputation. However, as her fifteenth birthday neared, it became more difficult to hide her from Aundarian high society. When Lord Gyphero and Lady Margot Haldron died two months ago in a carriage accident, Baisley’s older siblings choose to place her in the care of House Jorasco healers rather than risk embarrassing the family.

**NPCs:**

- **Antonia d’Medani** - Antonia d’Medani is a dragonmarked heir (half-elf) of House Medani and a spy, member of the Order of the Artful Hunt. She is a clever-eyed half-elf in her midtwenties. She keeps her dark hair cropped in a curled bob and wears deep red lipstick in an attempt to appear more mature, but it does little to mask her youthful face. Her sardonic demeanor belies an earnest desire to root out corruption—on her own terms. She frequently offers pro bono legal services to Sharn’s poorer residents, but all too often finds herself wrapped up in larger schemes. Antonia is keen and witty, and, despite her affinity for doing the right thing, enjoys games of chance when the opportunity arises. She’s earned the respect of the Callestan Clash, a ragtag gang who run a back-alley gambling and street fighting ring. Personality: I’m a born gambler who can’t resist taking a risk for a big payoff, and I encourage others to do the same.
    - contacts Syndra, seeks to sabotage House Cannith's laboratory, also recalls the previous bounty (delivery of highly valuable necromancy scrolls to the BoV - find these scrolls: Avascular Mass, 3 of Necrotic Cyst, Necrotic Tumor, Necrotic Termination, Plague Undead, Review Undead... there is also a Ring of Vampirism (allows the wearer to cast Kiss of the Vampire 3/day ))
- **Mason's Tower: Cat the Lab Rat**. Catalina Catthias (or Cat) is a street urchin and apprentice wizard who is fascinated by and obsessed with Merrix d’Cannith. She wants to follow in his footsteps and become a great artificer, and has claimed the abandoned workshop in the Mason’s Tower. She has repaired an oaken bolter in the tower which has gone rogue. Personality: I am scrappy, resourceful, highly intelligent, and I hate when people patronize me. Ideal: I dream of a life beyond the rough streets of Korth. I aspire to greatness. Bond: I am devoted to my homunculus familiar, Pup, and would be devastated if anything happened to him. Flaw: I don’t know as much about magic as I pretend to, and this sometimes puts me and others in danger.
- **Barnabus Baylum d’Phiarlan,** elf commoner, Greater Mark of Shadow, organizes entertainment, sponsored by House Phiarlan

### Antecessor District

---

- Dorning's Designs: Silk, tapestries and tailoring house, mostly for commoners
- Blades of Karrn: major foundry and supplier to Karrnathi army
- Armory of the Dead: barracks and series of blacksmiths and weapons vaults; sells surplus army gear
- Bluefist of Mror: masterwork items and unusual materials, setup shop immediately after the M'ror holds declared independence;
    - they specialize in advanced arms, but they do not supply in bulk
- Necropolis of the Valiant: Korth's corpse collector headquarters
- Chandra the Seer: specializes in divination and illusion items
- Catalyst's Guild: material components (Cannith-sponsored)
- ir'Alanso Clothiers: noble-sponsored tailoring house (Vokir ir'Alanso)
- Lankuvorr Prospecting: expanded dwarven mining company

The most defensible section of the city, raised on a plateau 15 feet above the lower city, such is the military tradition of Karrnathi city planning, offering the upper class an area of added protection from invasion as well as a superior view and altitude over the rabble. A plethora of White Lions and contracted warforged patrol the premises.

Given the lateness of the night, one would assume any nobleman’s estate patroll to be especially attentive and protective and the noblemen themselves to be sound asleep.

**Home of Charoth ir'Arkenen**

Juxtaposing a spanning warehouse identifiable as the manufacturing home of Arkenen Glass, a razor-edged fence frames this estate like a row of stylized iron glaives, conjoined by a pair of black gates. The gates swing open upon approach. Dark windows above, no one present, a short path encircles a dry fountain; a vulture-headed stone demon towers at the center of the courtyard, glaring down from its frozen perch; the statue’s eye inlaid spheres of glass are ensorceled with a crimson light - the only exterior illumination around the manor. A faint aura, a ward of sorts, appears to surround the archway leading into the interior of the monumental building. Two mechanical beings composed of brass and iron and bedecked in a loose uniform of the city watch flank on either side of the entrance standing positively alert.

Encounter: A large animal, easily the length of a horse and covered in patchy, rust-colored fur, a mass of lesions mar its black-skinned hide, crouching low to the ground bounds in your direction with the litheness of a cat, accompanied by the sound of rattling metal. This black, mechanical hunting hound keeps its nose to the ground sniffling and whuffing. Gleaming teeth fill its metal mouth as its snorts steam. (Clockwork Hound, CR 2, TOB 62).

The grey hall beyond the foyer doubles as an art gallery, a wide corridor running left and right. The sculptures that line the corridor are set upon matching pedestals of gray marble. Most appear to be works of metal or stone, some abstract and unappealing to look upon, while others more realistic, pleasing depictions. Every piece contains some component of glass - an hourglass in the arms of a marble beggar, a monocle affixed to the gold bust of an elderly scholar, even a single fingernail in the closed fist of a soldier cast in bronze. You are led through a series of austere chambers, left alone in a windowless parlor rendered entirely in shades of black, gray and white. The offset of color is off-putting, you naturally glance down, noticing your still colored attire and skin and thus concluding this cannot simply be a magical effect, but an intentional interior design. Above you is a series of layered crystal-like chandeliers structured as if cascading waters pouring over a teardrop glass, an artistic rendering of glass magically suspended just below a marble ceiling, a faerie-like arcade of dim evanescence providing a faint luminescent coloration to the otherwise bleak room.

**Lord Charoth ir’Arkenen**: ex-Cannith Lord, Karrnathian warlord; one of the new players in Karrnath’s export industries, owns Arkenen Glass, along with a number of tenements and warehouses in the city; lone survivor of a forgehold disaster that claimed the lives of dozens of House Cannith workers, he emerged disfigured. In response to his child's passing, "Disappointing."

Every inch of the man’s body is enshrouded in a voluminous, courtly robe of midnight blue. From wide sleeves you can see black silken gloves on each hand, one of which clutching a striking silver-headed cane of deep blue glass. His hooded face is concealed with a multicolored mask of lacquered darkwood painted with bright, stylized colors and carved with twisting runes. Darkwood—an uncommon, expensive wood usually imported from Aerenal. The slits of the eyes were covered with glass, the lenses too thick to reveal the eyes beneath. Against the muted shades of the parlor, the wizard’s attire stands out in livid contrast.

- **Andrathath’s Mask (Medani design) Spells:** The mask grants the wearer additional spells every day. The mask adds 1 to all spell slots the wearer has and also allows the wearer to cast the following spells - Detect Magic (3 x day), Dispel Magic (2 x day), and True Seeing (1 x day). These spells do not count against your spell slots. The mask also imparts one new spell per level of any level the wearer can cast. *Magical Defenses***:** The mask functions as an Amulet of Proof Against Detection and Location, and gives disadvantage to others on Perception checks to see or hear the wearer. The wearer is Immune to all Illusion spells and effects while wearing the mask.

The entire residence, the guest bedrooms, lavatory, servant's quarters, demonstrates the perfection of interior design. Ornate mahogany doors lead to a wide chamber swathed in heavy cloths of green, gold and black. Expensive furniture and paintings framed in precious metals exhibited the wealth of Charoth's station. A hidden door in a three-way mirror opens up into a spacious walk-in closet. The carpeting from the bedroom stretched into the room where heavy curtains hung from each wall. A single window lays tightly shuttered on the northern wall, with a high-backed, velvet-padded chair facing it. A strange smells wafts throughout the room, like vinegar or a brining solution. The window features a scenic view of King's Bay. The cellar rooms, blank stone walls and wine cellar are the only places sparsely furnished.

***Inn of the Midnight Bass.*** A violet banner hoisted outside proudly displays the House Thuranni emblem, a displacer beast. This Thuranni inn boasts several elven dishes including a master chef recreating ancient dishes of Xen’drik. Large panes of glass afford a magnificent view of the falls and the river flowing through the center of the restaurant. Tables suspended over the river are reserved months in advance especially during the annual return of the dark bass, also a specialty of the house.

**Locations in Atur:**

- **The Justice Ministry** - series of tall, unremarkable buildings, governmental and legislative within which is a Sivis-operated enclave which manages record-keeping. What the architecture lacks in inspiration, there is an offset of a panoply of military banners, the black, silver and crimson of the Karrnathi flag most prevelant; The first level consists of a printing station for the Korth Sentinel as well as the Korranberg Chronicle; beneath there are six levels of Medani security stations.

**NPCs**

- **Major Jotrem Dalesek**, tall, older retired officer, now local inquisitive; a few faint scars show along his neck and one hand; a long sword, its pommel decored w/ an R in filigree; his skin frigid, a ring w/ polished black stone, red colors swirling within (a fire opal)
- **Civic Minister Hyran ir'Tennet**
- **Sergeant Bratta**, White Lion
- **Arowyn d'Sivis**, Sivis contact at the Justice Ministry
- **Soneste Otänsin**, inquisitive of Sharn and Thuranne d’Velderan’s Investigative Services, now in Korth by request of the Citadel. Accompanied by Aegis, warforged bodyguard assigned to protect the passed ir'Daresh family.
- **Tallis of Rekkenmark**, previously a Major in the Karrnathian army, now a freelance criminal, bounty hunter on the streets
- **Princess Borinna ir'Wynarn and Prince Halix ir'Wynarn** (Brellish nobles, studying at Rekkenmark Military Academy, as a sign of peace and trust agreement between the nations; live in Kaius's court in Crown Home of the Antecessor District)
- **Major Jotrem Dalesk**

**The Crimson Monastery** (Five Nations, 114)

The Crimson Monastery dominates the cityscape. The three spire, pyramidal building made of blood-red brick and ebon-black mortar seems to faintly glow with Atur's twilight. The smell of incense is almost overpowering, and you can hear the low, droning chants of the Vol worshippers within. Red-robed guards - some living, some not - stand at attention to either side of the main entrance, and wild-eyed priests beckon passersby to enter and take part in the evening's rituals.

Look not to the skies, nor to the depths below, nor even to the distant past or future. Seek the divine within, for the blood is the life, and in its call can be heard the promise of eternal life. One has but to listen. “Blood is life, and for me to know life everlasting, I must know the blood that flows within your veins.”

"The Blood flows, the Blood gives life. The Blood is life, even after the grave." — Mudren Fain, priest of the Blood of Vol

Inside is a maze of worship halls, ritual chambers, and shrines. The copper scent of blood hangs heavy in the air in this chamber of dark red marble. Pools of blood are spread across the floor around several dimly glowing red pillars that give off wispy vapors. Statues of four gargoyles each with mouths and claws tripping blood stand in alcoves around the chamber. Torches on wall sconces light most rooms within the Crimson Monastery, and candles provide shadowy illumination in the hallways. A haze of smoke hangs over the exterior of the monastery, wafting upward through hundred of small chimneys. The drowning chants of Vol worshipers echo through the labyrinth of twisting corridors.

**Prisons:** Any NPCs related to the party or other important NPCs?

Multiple shrines, chapels and altars are connected by a network of wide passageways and stairs; seating for 50 to 200 people, though far fewer worshippers are present currently. Ritual chambers feature dozens of cultists dancing, chanting and praying.

Treasure vaults are guarded by 2nd level clerics, locked, trapped doors, and an undead within the vault itself (wight, mummy, wraith, or spectre). 1d4 6th level treasures. Detention cells hold "willing" victims for future sacrifices. Each cell has a shuttered slot for food and water and a lock.

**Crimson Monastery - Dungeon Design**

- Sacrifice Chamber. Torchlight illuminates a circular well bordered by a low bloodstained wall. Rusty iron cages are set into the far wall, while the others bear bas-relief sculptures that illustrate the macabre rites that must have once taken place here. If the images on the walls are to be believed, creatures were held within these cages and dropped into the central well. Below, a great skeletal dragon would feast on them. A snarling grunt issues from the dark corner of the room to the right of the entrance. A low mass of shaggy fur and sharp claws eyes you warily, and you hear the sound of metal on stone as the oversized wolverine shifts in the shadows. (The wolverine is held fast to the wall with an iron chain.) A massive altar dominates the far wall, a mural behind it stretching all the way to the chamber’s vaulted ceiling. This mural depicts a massive black dragon perched atop an active volcano, the glow of molten lava reflected in the red of the beast’s eyes. The bodies of demons litter the base of the volcano, while other fiendish creatures can be seen trapped within it. A low circular wall surrounds a well in the center of the room. An open archway in the wall opposite the altar appears to lead to a vestry.
- The Morgue. The floors are in poor condition, gritty and dirty, much of the metal in the rooms have become rusted over time. Cadaver dissection trays and tool trays juxtapose U-shaped counters propped with medical supplies. Magically cooled, stone storage containers are embedded in the walls, each decorated with nameless plaques. Receiving rooms are piled with new corpse arrivals, prepared using embalming fluids injected through needles by clearly trained scientists. The fluids shine a neon, bright blue. Memorial chambers and tombs interweave with incineration rooms, producing unbreathable air. Much of the tasked workforce appears dressed in breathing masks and embroidered lab coats, displaying recognizable insignias, the Griffon of House Jorasco or the Gorgon of House Cannith. Though the working conditions are not ideal, the scientists appear to have made the best of the situation.
- Gallery of Vol. This long hall is lavish, with paintings in wooden and synth frames on the walls. The walls are covered in fabric that is now stained and worn, even tattered in places. The black-and-white tile floor is covered in a matted red carpet that runs through the middle of the gallery. From the ceiling hang crystal chandeliers. About three-quarters of the way down the gallery, the carpet runs to the feet of a beautiful white marble statue of the queen looking imperious. Paintings: The gallery has thirty paintings, all oil-on-canvas works of fine quality. However, hanging here for more than a hundred years has left most of them in poor condition. A marble statue of Erandis Vol presents her dragonmarked body.
- The Nest. Aurturi, a bioengineered creature that resembles an insect the size of a small man. It has crooked wings that would never allow it to fly; a bloated, hairy body; and a broad head with two multifaceted eyes. Its six legs are prehensile, more tendrils than insect legs. Prominently, however, its abdomen sports a massive stinger. The room is bare metal walls, floor, and ceiling, and it stinks of something acrid and sour. The creature barely moves, and if it does, it does so clumsily. Its wings flutter in short bursts of droning buzz. If approached, it attempts to sting, injecting its dangerous venom into any living thing it finds. The creature doesn’t need to eat or reproduce. Behind the creature is a brownish-yellow nest four times its size. The nest is actually a bioengineered device that will create a new Aurturi when this one dies.
- Elevator. A flexible cable hangs from the ceiling down to about eye level, at the end of which is a rubbery ball. If the ball is squeezed, the westernmost 20-foot-by-20-foot area (6 m by 6 m) of the floor begins to descend rapidly down a shaft. The cable extends to keep pace. If, at any time, the ball stops being squeezed, A careful examination of the corridor before stepping into it would negate the modification for surprise. The floor stops moving. From that position, there is no way to make the floor rise to its original level. Instead, it must descend 160 feet (49 m) to the bottom of the shaft, where it stops (regardless of whether the ball is squeezed). As long as the ball is squeezed, the floor remains at the bottom of the shaft.
- Embalming Chamber. The wooden door to this chamber from the west has been smashed in. The door to the south is stone and carved with the likeness of the queen’s serene visage. It, too, appears to have been forced open in the distant past. The room has ceramic tile floors and plaster-on-brick walls. Unlit torches rest in sconces on the otherwise undecorated walls. A storage cabinet sits in one corner, and a large table rests in the middle of the room. The storage cabinet used to hold tools and chemicals for a medical or embalming procedure, but it is mostly empty now.
- False Tome of Vol. This chamber has ceramic tile on the floor, and the walls are covered in painted reliefs similar to those found in the memorial but in far better condition. In the middle of the room is a sarcophagus of white marble. In the top is carved the image of the beautiful queen reclining in a death pose. Along the walls are empty wooden chests covered in gold and silver, long since looted. A few broken ceramic urns and other pieces of broken pottery lie on the floor. The sarcophagus, if opened, contains the remains of a well-preserved female corpse, regal garb now just tatters of rotted cloth.

**Ossuary of Malevanor.** This cold howling wind scraping across the stonework of the interior of the dome chamber, moans out in your direction, and ominous foretell for what lies within. An old incense burned long ago lingers in the air. What you can see in here is a laboratory, a sanctum of some kind, a smooth dark stone floor and perimeter tables that carry all manner of brass mechanisms and intricate glass tubes. Channels carved into the floor hold a steady stream of blood that drains into catch basins at the room's edge. On a central table stands a bipedal figure, a withered creature wrapped in gore-stained rags. Strapped to the center table, a grotesque body screams in panic, echoing due to the glassware of the laboratory. Beside the table lays a pile of corpses. The figure hunched over, covered partially in large black and red robes, its skin itself sickly and pale, even torn is some places, turns to show its ghastly decomposing head, pupils clouded over.

- Immense necromantic laboratory where the high priest spends his time. Corpses, some animated, lie on tables and biers through the cavernous room. **Malevanor**, a half-elven mummy, oversees the rites and rituals of blood within the Crimson Monastery (see below)

**Treasure:**

- scrolls: **Avascular Mass,** 3 of Necrotic Cyst, Necrotic Tumor, Necrotic Termination, Plague Undead
- Ring of Vampirism (allows the wearer to cast Kiss of the Vampire 3/day )
- the Nightclaw: This grisly item seems to be a mummified hand, severed a little above the wrist. The flesh is dry and smooth, dead gray in color. The hand has a warm smell of embalming spices about it, but is cold to the touch. cast darkness 3/day and enervation 1/day.

**Things for the party to (“Also some things to…”) keep in mind:**

- Manufacturing and production of Karrnathi weapons during the war, believed from workshops in Korth and Atur
- Noteworthy observations about the lake: submerged chapel steeple protruding from the eastern side, possibly an area effect inducing amnesia?
- Woman who died at Devil’s Reef named Akai ir’Arkenen
- Suspecting occurrences around the city including a parasitic infection, which House Jorasco seemed reluctant to discuss (believed to be an airborne plague)
- 3 ambassador assassinations: Gamnon ir'Daresh (Brelish), ...
- Disappearance of the Keeper of the Flame... blame ascribed to the Dark Lanterns
- Roewyn’s visions: "clanking sounds of machinery, a cryptic flesh golem and Lucan himself looking very bloodied. A luminescent green glow and iconography, oil lamps."
- Primary Contacts: Verbane Istivin, Viorr Mallak, Antonia d’Medani, Jurian ir’Wynarn (Corrine’s brother)
- Other contacts / helpful NPCs:
    - Smithy Dara's Designs, Xen'drick Stormreach (can be commissioned for weapon / armor upgrades)

**RECAP:**

- Contacted by Dalassa (Dalassakash'alyntar of the Shulassakar) indicating the return of "the Shadow", request to meet in a library of Korranberg branch in Therendor
- Ragnar met Princess Borinna, strapped to a chair with 5 pipes extracting blood, in the research facility; before the artificer left, he triggered the alarms, currently sounding throughout the facility.
- Party met Soneste Otansin, tracking Tallis of Rekkenmark, believed responsible for the assassination of Gamnon ir'Daresh.
- At the Midnight Market, the party discovered an amphibious humanoid creature that appeared to be deprived of breathable water. You brought the creature with you to the Golden Dragon Inn, on the edge of the Antecessor District and Docking District. You charmed the creature to return with you to the Golden Dragon.

**DM Session Start Notes:**

- Syndra and Corrine should roll a Wisdom Check (DC 10) at the start of the session (for Madness) and Syndra should row a Constitution saving throw (DC 11 + 1 per day)* - this imitates the immunity system fighting off the infection. (consider using an hour timer, upon time, the body remains standing, but becomes unable to speak - the creature then begins to imitate those around it).
- Snorri should take 2d8 damage at the end of every long and short rest.
- *Devil's Spine:* (Proto-Shoggoth infection) In the 24-hour period before giving birth, the host starts to feel unwell, its speed is halved, and it has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws.
- Insidious Choir - collective hive mind of the virus, telepathic transmissions controlled at a tower station

Observations of Devil's Spine: (see Formless Spawn, CoC 321- CR 6)

```
General Observations:
- appears to communicate via emitting telepathic frequencies, possibly able to travel vast distances
- termed communication channels spinnerets - transmitters or a web of neurological strands
- infected hosts appear to seek knowledge and understanding of the world
- infected hosts appear to act in hostility, likely to eliminate potential threats in its environment
- self-contained tests against the substance showed resistance to burning effects and instrumental prodding or slashing
- self-contained tests also showed substance's immunity to acid; growth best stimulated in cold environments

Stage 1. Growth
- Parasite develops as a microscopic, infective agent capable of replication within living cells of an organism (it copies itself)
- The resulting "biological agent" appears to be sentient colony of cells, a highly fluid entity birthed from black protoplasm
- Digests organic material consumed by the host relentlessly, maintains starving state; begins feeding off the host's fatty acids
- Development cycle estimated to take up to 72 hours when saturated in cool temperatures

Stage 2. Possession and Imitiation
- Overtakes host's neurological synapses beginning at the spine
- Specimen's amniotic sac produces numbing effect by diffusing through circulatory and integumentary systems of host
- Host's epithelial, connective and muscle tissues become limp and volatile, altering shape with the rapidity of water
- Host's skeletal system re-solidifies; formless, adaptable, and regenerative
- Host becomes animate at this point, appears to be learning basic movements
- Specimen begins mimicking behavior of nearby lifeforms

Stage 3. Seeding
- Extends retractable pseudopods, bulges of cytoplasm coordinated by collaborative action of microfilaments 
pushing through the plasma membrane that surrounds the organism, creates whip-like tendrils
- Appears to be composed of consumptive enzymes, functionally boiling acidic substance which tears through flesh
- Speculated to be amorphous and amphibious, not confirmed
```

---

**The Docking District** 19th Barrakas, 1016 YK

- Docking District.

    Your first sensation would be of wonder at so prodigious and unexpected a transformation of scenery from the rest of the Antecessor District, a reality more horrifying than necessarily astonishing. The region is putrid with the carcasses of decaying fish, and of other less describable things protruding from the rotten, soaked soil. The stench of mold and hints of urine lingers in the area. Rats scurry about a trash-choked alleyway between two demolished buildings.

- Golden Dragon Inn.

    The wooden sign outside displaying the eponymous Helpful Hound, the coveted Gold Seal of House Ghallanda, is faded and chipped, and the paint looks more gray than green at this point. The bar is filled with orcs, half-orcs, Khoravar half-elves, and black-clad Cyrans, all drinking heavily. A human woman dressed scantily in scarlet dances upon a small stage, accompanied by a half-orc drummer and a Khoravar fiddler and illuminated by several glaringly bright dancing lights in orb form. The bartender is a heavyset orc who gazes upon each customer with a deeply unimpressed expression. The innkeeper is an aged, male halfling.

**NPCs**

- **Cagyn Rilid**: A Cyran fisherman sulking in the corner. A deep sea diver recently returned to shore, telling a tale of a lost companion and jellyfish that seemed to be made of human hearts. Believes the "airborne plague" is in fact a seaborne spinal parasite. He begs for someone to rescue his friend—or at least find out what happened to him.

Along the ocean’s floor can one find the celosia—sea spiders that thrive inside the hydrothermal vents at the bottom of the Karrn Bay. The celosia release blue bioluminescent mucus when disturbed; this biochemical mucus, when mixed with fresh water, becomes the gharolan, an infused chemical compound capable of powerful regenerative and cleansing capabilities.

Sweet Dreams. In your slumber, you discover yourself half sucked into a slimy expanse of hellish black mire which extends around you in monotonous undulations as far as you can see. An unrecognizable ship rests assuredly grounded some distance away. Ruined structures of a once thriving metropolis appear and vanish in the thrashing waves. Water suddenly rushes about you, you fight against the engulfing current. As you turn toward the source of this raging waterfall, a blinding light shines on a reflective, scaly surface, barely concealing rows of shark-like, elongated fangs. Then something under the water creeps against your skin. A cold, slimy feeling, an applied pressure inches slowly wrapping your body, pulling you down into the torrential wake until finally your neck tightens. You awaken, gasping for air in a cold sweat.

- Dock house of Verdaxen Snorac.

    The wooden flooring creaks, several broken planks lay in your path. The room features a window overlooking a crude water vessel in the abandoned harbor. It resembles a miniature barge with a rusted iron protrusion serving as the pilot house. You can barely make out the name written on the hull, Kapoacinth (referring to an underwater gargoyle race), amidst thick layers of mildew, a salvage tug from the war. The pier itself cries out for repair and some of the pilings look ready to break free from it altogether. A cluster of damaged ships crowd the dock. A large hand-drawn map of Khorvaire posits the wall beside this overseeing window.

    The cramped and dark foyer smells like lamp oil and snake skin. The air remains uncomfortably warm, the lighting as black as night. The room juxtaposing features flaring yellow-globed lanterns, their cold fire illuminating the space. Looking upon the room brings a feeling of distaste and yet wonder. You have likely seen arcane workspaces before, visiting magewright shops and even glimpsing into research chambers in a Cannith Enclave. Every horizontal surface is littered with a perplexing array of tools and inorganic parts. Books and trinkets are scattered about the furniture surfaces. Hooks and chains jut from the ceiling and walls, holding whatever apparently failed to fit anywhere else. Tucked in an alcove beside you is a sheaf of legal documents. Against the far side, a large storage bin is propped half open by something covered in a filthy tarp (Brellish warforged // damaged life core). An aqueous murmur somewhere beneath her feet, as though the warehouse itself was powered by churning water. Gazing into the other room, a small, reptilian figure appears mounted on a small metal step ladder, preoccupied with what lay in front of him. A hooked hammer of notably Gnomish design. No taller than a halfling, most of its scaly, gray-brown skin is covered by a suit that combines a workman’s smock with studded leather armor. A pair of oversized goggles are perched atop his head, contesting with the two black horns that sprouted there—a kobold.

    A somewhat wayward traveler appears slouching, relaxing in a chair beside the kobold, watching almost impatiently.

    Investigation (DC 16): Eyes of Minute Seeing, Robe of Useful Items, Mariner's Armor, Wand of Magic Missiles, Ring of X-Ray Vision, Driftglobe, Folding Boat, 2d4 trinkets

---

### **The Orphanage**

---

**Encounter 1: Keepers (sniping the players from the alley ways)**

The PCs encounter the Keepers while visiting the city of Korth. After defeating the creatures, they spot another a short while later disappearing into a side entrance of the Crimson Monastery. Further investigation leads the PCs into the depths of the city to a research laboratory.

**The remaining Keeper flees into a sewage line**

Beneath the city: Bloodmote Cloud, Bone Rat Swarm, Corpse Rat Swarm, or Dire Maggot can all be found beneath the city (especially in the sewage systems beneath the Monastery... necromancy spells have created a field of magic that has leaked into the sewers) - Libris Mortis

**Lucan and Adassa Sano d'Cannith:**

- refers to spawn as servants or "puppets"
- still a respectable, well-mannered gentleman.
    - Greets Lady Adassa Sano d'Cannith
        - L: "May I introduce Lady Adassa Sano d'Cannith, chief researcher of the Orphanage." <bows>
        - A: "Please... I merely employ proper business management. My works, though underrated, are far less than those of my peers."
        - L: "I have brought the blade... as promised. Though may I press for additional time with it. I... no, we have some cleaning up to do."

**Research and Experimentation Block**

Encounter: Proto-Shoggoth (CoC 372) - CR 9

The humanoid’s skin splits apart with a nauseating sound of tearing flesh as a monstrous pink cluster of pseudopods emerge from within. A mass of reeking protoplasm boils forth from the deflated human skin, which simply limps to the ground.

**TODO: An Inspired should be present overseeing the operations.**

**TODO: Correspondance between Lucan Stellos and Charoth ir'Arkenen or a lead artificer of House Cannith.**

**TODO: Need more NPCs (read Sarlona for inspiration).**

Encounters:

- **Dolghasts**, This humanoid is messily bisected by a division of boiling flesh running from the tip of its skull down its face, chest, and groin. It is as though one creature had been formed from two halves - one living and one dead. The line where the two meet churns with liquefying flesh, as unholy life constantly fights against necrosis, giving rise to a ghastly smell. The living half is hunched and emaciated, while the dead half is partially skeletal and rotted.

```
**Report #773b**

Hypothesis: Program will test the feasibility of spatiotemporal transference of strain #773b via surgical procedure.

Specializing in targeted mutation, production of universal vaccinations, strain containment, aberrant apotheosis, 
mutagenic acceleration and sub-molecular surgery enhanced by arcanomechanical devices and infusions, renegade mastermaker 
and chief artificer Lord Everyn Korell d'Cannith will be overseeing the following procedures. Xenoalchemist, biolinguist 
and chirugeon Lord Torash Targaen d'Cannith will operate as chief surgeon. Avid naturalist and expert breedmaster, 
Mundir d'Vadalis has endorsed animal applications for stage 2.

Assistant Artificers: Morxikas Aurum d'Cannith
Assistant Surgeons: Airwynn d'Jorasco, Jode d'Jorasco
Program Stage 1: construction and application
Program Stage 2: familiar experimentation
Program Stage 3: human experimentation
Subject Name: Alamharath Je'shan
Race: Khalashtar
Experimental Result: Graft rejected. Subject is dead. Mismatch.

It is believed, upon injection, that the suspect's immunity system refused to accept the infusion. Patient immediately 
entered cardiac arrest. Resuscitation attempts appeared to have overheated the subject's body. No further information to 
be recorded at this time.
```

**NPCs:**

- **Everyn Korell d’Cannith**: chief artificer, minister of the Orphanage, a secret Cannith facility in Karrnath. He is one of the presumed dead in the accident which destroyed the site’s creation forge and facility in Therendor, 992 YK.
- **Franklin T. Danielles d’Cannith**, well-known artificer
- **Lady Adassa Sano d’Cannith**, previously a scavenger and investor who betrayed Fangli Towger with a promise of delivering sanctifiable warforged. Now she operates as a leading executive in the marketing department.
    - **Tabak Verna d’Cannith**, accomplice of Adassa
    - **Novalie Marthea d’Cannith**, accomplice of Adassa

For Quori stats, see Faithful of Eberron. Excellent 5e stat blocks for Inspired and Quori. See **Inspired Bastion Lord (CR 17)** and **Kalaraq Quori (CR 20).**

**Operation: Strain #773b, City-wide Experiment #1**

Coined “The Orphanage”, the joint innovative effort between House Vadalis, House Jorasco and House Cannith specializing in lifeform almagamation, genetic enhancements, and research of exotic creatures.

- House Jorasco: interested in replicating the regenerative capabilities of the deep ones
- House Cannith: under the guise of neutrality, Cannith has chosen to empower Karrnath through developing a necrotic weapon industry
    - An effort that could cost the already poor reputation of the house.
    - the Emerald Claw have become the primary backers, utilizing the developments in terroristic activities
- House Vadalis: bioweapons program: seeking to unlock and replicate the supernatural abilities of the deep ones for human modification (mage-breeding).

**TODO: need plausible deniability**

For the Trust, theft of a preconceived primitive weapon, such as those manufactured by Karrnathi forges during the war, is admissible and irrelevant. The notion of a head agent evidently (as far as they are concerned) being a double agent is also not uncommon. However, the revealed instability of a major Brellish defensive agency requires attention, and this is somewhat concerning considering the reliability of their ally.

Response to Dorrias from the Trust (in response to information regarding assassinations, already acknowledged, random deaths, and a mysterious lake):

- first confirms whether the line is secure and whether the informant is in a private location.

“Irrelevant information. What have you learned regarding the agent?"

**TODO: How is the Emerald Claw, Crimson Covenant involved / related to this chain of events?**

- recall that the CC is Vol’s 13 most trusted lieutenants and advisors, possibly with spies from the Lords of Dust / Dragons of Argonessan infiltrating the ranks. Likely, none or particularly few of these people would be present in the Crimson Monastery except on special occasion.

**TODO: Consider separating the Orphanage from the Crimson Monastery. The Orphanage should feel like a heist scenario, rimmed with patrolling warforged, rooms devoted to alchemical experiments, glass prisms surrounding the Deep Ones reservoir (one-way, see-through). Evidence of passing through Dark Lantern Agents (shadow stealth) and Royal Eyes agents (illusions, stealth, wandslingers).**

- **Alarm** spell should be cast on any significant entryways.

**TODO: What happens after the PCs exit the submerged laboratory?**

- Possibly surrounded by maddened Jorasco / Cannith employees; say one big bad NPC survives? Or a good NPC to believe the PCs to be capable, given the right equipment (submergible ship?)
- Alternatively, they are picked up by Royal Eyes agents and depart from the location via airship.
- Orphanage under surveillance by rogue Dark Lantern agents. Lucan, discovering Operation Dagon takes control of the situation in order to forward Xantoxil's agenda.
- Royal Eyes have become aware of the situation about the same time as the PCs.
    - **TODO: How do they gather this information?**
    - They can assist the PCs in combat / securing the situation.
- Perhaps the Sword drains Lucan during the time that he orchestrated the takeover of the facility. The PCs discover a weakened Lucan, wielding the sword and in the middle of combat, the glass begins to crack.
- The Genesis (?) Forge to be utilized to reverse the creative process (cold fire -> warm fire), processing the blade to release the Quori spirit in an ethereal, non-corporeal state; the agent and the interested Cannith / Vadalis / Jorasco parties observing the reversal effect. (Is there an actual spell that can be associated with this?)

**REMEMBER: the weapon must be retrievable. This way the party can discuss their options for whom to deliver the blade over to (Dark Lanterns, Royal Eyes, Penitent Brethren, Breland, etc.)**

ROYAL EYES: on standby, waiting for extraction of the artifact and agent.

**Random Encounters**

- Dark Lantern agents
- Red Watchers fighting against undead horde

Notes:

From the Sharn Inquisitive:

- [http://archive.wizards.com/default.asp?x=dnd/ebsi/20051114a](http://archive.wizards.com/default.asp?x=dnd/ebsi/20051114a)
- "Rampaging Dragon Menaces Karrnathi Countryside" [http://archive.wizards.com/default.asp?x=dnd/ebsi/20051024a](http://archive.wizards.com/default.asp?x=dnd/ebsi/20051024a)
- "Korranberg Library Shares Genealogical Records with Karrnathi Cult" [http://eberronunlimited.wikidot.com/inquisitive:eyre-1-998yk](http://eberronunlimited.wikidot.com/inquisitive:eyre-1-998yk)
- There has been a resurgence of followers of the Sovereign Host since the Blood of Vol was exiled, so any sort of conflict between them. Prelate Roerith (Sovereign Host) is pretty active in trying to push out the Blood of Vol.
- The House Orien's trains have not returned, nobody knows when they will be returning (overrun by undead from Lake Dark)

The sword is not impressed with a demon of Khyber but with a Quori spirit, similar to the design of the warforged. The sword beckons to return to the place where it was once forged.

What if the underwater (aquifer) is a sort of fermenting breeding ground for a type of spiritual, polymorphous creature that has become a new species (Dagon, Deep Ones), a type of sea creature and vessel for the spirits? The fungi, plant life, aquatic animals (fish, etc.), and parasytes have been affected by these molefacent spirits which are now affecting the populace?

What if the spirit is not necessarily evil, but misunderstood and longs to return home? Kills out of angst and fear.