# Eberron 1: "Bride of Shadows"

**Background:**

Lady Saraestra Aestruum, Queen of Night and Magic, a powerful fey sorceress who has dwelt,
exiled within the Shadow realms, finally wages war on the Fey Patrons of Thelanis (the Faerie Court). But this all occured a number of centuries before the present time, but due to the mystical surpassing of time that happens within the Feywild, those on the Material Plane are only finally becoming aware of the new rulership. With her invasive reign, a number of Lords and Ladies took the chance to exert their sovereign dominance over the regions of the Feywild which they precided. After discovering the pacts and deals her husband had composed with the devils and demons in exchange for their support, the Queen seductively pursuaded the pact-makers to betray her husband, aiding her side against the powerful Fey deities.

20 Olarune 994 YK, the *Day of Mourning*, marked more than the beginning of the end of the Last War, it was the end of a nation. On that day the nation of Cyre was destroyed in a holocaust of fire and magic.

In what is now known as the Field of Ruins in southwestern Cyre, the combined forces of the Brelish military, led by Princess Borann, and Thrane armies, led by Bishop-Militant Grodan, a close friend and advisor of High Cardinal Krozen, joined by pact, were attacking a much smaller Cyran force. The Cyrans had just been reinforced, after having cleverly used tireless warforged units for days to convince their opponents that they possessed greater numbers, but were still outnumbered 3-1.

Karrn attackers were moving through Cyre to the north, in a retaliatory strike for the recent Cyran attack on Atur, Karrnath, near the Ashen Spires. However bad things might have looked for the Cyrans, no one could have imagined the devastation in store. And the invading armies were not spared. *On that day*, the skies were said to have burned so brightly that soldiers at Angwar Keep in Thrane were blinded. In the end, virtually everyone within the borders of what is now the Mournlands perished.

Thelanis is coterminous for a period of seven years every 225 years. For the 14 years following, the plane is remote and then travels in its own orbit the remaining until once again becoming coterminous. However, when the Mourning happened, the relation between Thelanis and the Material Plane suddenly shifted. Feyspires became stuck on the Material Plane, unable to return to Thelanis. During the Last War, the plane was in its own orbit, becoming coterminous for 7 years just at the end, however when the plane forcibly became remote on the Day of Mourning, the feyspire communities remained. The Greensinger Druids, as constant observants of the relation between Thelanis and Eberron, discovered the plane became increasingly near -- an annoucement was made to the Council of Aundair who immediately rescheduled the Midsummer's Eve festival (a celebration of the planes becoming coterminal) to an earlier date, a century earlier than
expected (**1098 YK**).

Thelanis is a realm of rugged natural beauty—primarily lush forests and crystal-clear waters. Among the trees rise shadowy spires of enchanting beauty, surrounded by mesmerizing lights that look like dancing lanterns. Phosphorescence gleams on plants and stones, lighting the eternal twilight of the plane, while a multitude of stars twinkle in the sky. The plane is in a constant state of twilight.

Like all of the cosmic planes, the Feywild and the Material Plane are separate entities, but they have a fair amount of overlap and interaction. In Khorvaire, one of the most pronounced examples of this overlap are the feyspires, which visit from the plane of Thelanis. In the years preceding the Last War and the Mourning, these fey communities would blink into existence, occupying small tracts of land throughout Khorvaire. This "blinking" would happen at random, with no relation to the plane's coterminal state. Though by no means a city by our standards, the feyspires consist of a large central tower and an outcropping of buildings and fey communties.

Over the ages, their presence has been both celebrated and despised, and the presence of fey creatures (eladrin, elves, etc.) can be traced mostly to these places. The feyspires would appear on a somewhat regular basis, and stay for a few months, then disappear until the next time. This changed, however, with the Mourning. Since then, the feyspires have remained on the Material Plane, and no amount of arcane research has been able to find a way to send them back. Local governments begrudgingly accept their presence on local lands because of the chaotic power their residents could bring to bear if antagonized.

Some things in the war:

Cyre fielded over a 100 Warforged Titans between 958 and 965: Huge, towering, behemoths designed specifically to trample waves of slow Karnathi undead. Thrane had griffin knights. Aundair had wizards and artificers riding dragonhawks and hurling lightning from the sky. Breland had heavy cavalry that rode bears into battle. Fucking BEARS. Worse are the mercenaries: Valanar light infantry that move faster than anything on the battlefield, squads of hobgoblin shocktroopers that tear apart pike formations with their spiked chains, and the terrible armies of Droaam, which include hill giants, ogre magi, and medusas. The scariest thing to ever grace a battlefield may be the Stone Band, a unit of Medusa cavalry riding Gorgons into battle, two to a mount: one medusa looking forwards, one looking backwards, turning everything within a 30 foot radius to stone as they trample across the battlefield.

**Episode 1 Setting:**

*Aundair* is a mostly flat country of farmlands and vineyards, in close proximity to the Eldeen Reaches, with a strong culture
of craftsmen, academics, and magic. Its capital is Fairhaven, and House Lyrandar (half-elf, *Mark of Storm*) and House Orien (human, *Mark of Passage*) are headquartered here. It possesses the premier academy of magic in all of Khorvaire, the Floating Towers of Arcanix. Although Aundair's army is small compared to its neighbors, it held its own throughout the Last War through its use of spellcasters within the army to employ destructive magical weapons and spells against its enemies. Aundair is governed by The Triumvirate, consisting of Queen Aurala, First Warlord Adal (who is the Royal Minister of Magic), and Lord Darro (leader of the Knights Arcane). Queen Aurala is a suspicious ruler, and as such operates the most extensive espionage system employed by any of the governments of Khorvaire, the Royal Eyes of Aundair. Its fiercest enemy during the Last War was neighboring Thrane, and relations between the two remain cold. Aundair's national symbol is the dragonhawk, a large, majestic bird of prey that can be used as a mount. During the Last War, Queen Aurala negotiated cease-fires with every nation, though non-permanent in order to buy time to build a fairly minified army composed of mercenaries of Valentar Elves, Talenta halflings and pirates of the Lhazaar Principalities. During this Cold War period and following the Last War, the Queen has employed a number of diplomats to direct their efforts once again to these nations to recompose her army.

*Fairhaven*: The capital of Aundair, the City of Lights, is the nation’s economic heart. Wide, straight streets provide easy travel, allowing merchants to deliver goods to Fairhaven’s bustling markets, including the famous *Distant Exchange*. More than anything else, *Fairhaven* is a city of learning, home to an uncountable number of institutions that range from full-fledged universities to tiny private schools, each educating students in a wide variety of topics. Fairhaven includes a naval, port district along the Aundair River between Aundair and Thrane. The centralized noble Courts of Fairhaven (*Fairhold*), often called a city within a city, features the royal family estate, The Queen's Hall, The Royal Collection of Aundair (library), The Tower of Eyes (Royal Eyes HQ), an additional Lightning Rail platform utilized only by nobles and elite, The Courts of Justice and a major garrison of The Knights Arcane. West of Fairhaven is *Whisper Rock*, a strange fey-ridden forest, arcanically twisted from the magical practices of Arcanix University students lying just southwest. The forest is full of fey (satres, spiders, dryads, centaur tribes, and sprites) and common animals (bears, owlbears, wolves).

**Elven NPC names:**

- Darunia Yllabalar
- Aymon Elvalur
- Nelaeryn Inaceran
- Sataleeti Farmaer
- Wistari Thehorn
- Vulas Inazumin
- Halueth Erhana
- Aimer Daejyre
- Khuumal Farlar
- Paeral Wynphine

**Gnome NPC names:**

- Magnus Thornburrow
- Corbinian Took
- Odo Maggot
- Timothy Butcher
- Asselin Bophin

Side Adventures to
Consider:

- *Seekers of the Ashen Crown* - quest takes place at Morgrave University, Sharn and the Graywall, Droaam
- *The Forgotten Forge* - 1st-level adventure from Eberron's Campaign Setting Guide
- *The Last War Campaign* - flashback/time-travel campaign taking place during the Last War

### Episode 1: Something's Amiss

To a party of seasoned adventurers such as yourselves, this is but another dull tavern in another dull town in some nameless province. It is but another passage of time between the challenges of true adventuring. Such is the doldrum of existence —waiting for another opportunity. Outside the Inn, a fog lies over the town this evening, draping everything in its clammy grasp. The damp cobbled street shines as the light of street lanterns dances across the slick stones. The cold fog chills the bones and shivers the soul of anyone outside. Yet inside these tavern walls the food is hearty and the ale is warm and frothy. A fire blazes in the hearth and the tavern is alive with the tumbling voices of country folk. As you walk in, suddenly, a hush falls over the tavern. Even the flagons of ale seem to silence themselves. Your group motions forward despite the awkward silence and the ominous feeling in the room that you are suddenly the center of attention. But the pace picks up again as the hushed whispering of the crowds gradually returns to the joyous jubilee it was initially. This tavern ("The Naughty Gnome") is unsurpisingly filled with mostly gnomes, such that the presence of other races seemed to throw the atmosphere off for a moment. Noticably, however, there are a number of elves, half-elves and humans present. After some time, students of the University of Fairhaven walk in looking mostly for a cleric, but also a few additional players for a game of Bah'ly when a few of the expected players from the schools don't show. The players will have to help break into the University to use the practice equipment to play the game (see *Taverns and Festival Games*).

University of Arcanix, the Floating Towers ("The Venomous Vipers")

University of Wynarn, aka Fairhaven University ("The Galliant Gryphons")

As the sun finally reaches its dusk setting sending waves of shadowed blue which traverse the horizon, the Ring of Siberys, appears as a ribbon of gleaming dragon shards, 7 moons which surround the world, shining like a gold band across the night sky. The crowd's cheering, only a short distance from Fairhaven's most praised university, echo to your ears, first sounding without sense or reason, just raw
sound, but eventually a soft, unified, rhythmical, chanting penetrates the noise of the crowds.

The sun, barely hanging on the horizon, still illuminates the ground with a soft golden glow. The players approach to notice a large crowd of civillians gathered around a collection of wizards (Esoteric Order) and Greensinger druids (a fey-obsessed druid sect native to the Eldreen Reaches) within the northern market district (called the Distant Exchange), at the very bottom of a massive flight of stairs topped with a magnificent palace surrounded by towers reaching high into the sky (the Royal Court of Fairhaven). At the very center of attention, elevated on platforms cornerings the stairs, two seemingly extraterrestrial, intricately designed gateways stand parallel to one another on opposite ends of the courtyard. (Perception Check DC 16) Peering into the shadows for a moment several ominous, dark shadows stand - only the shadow visages of their sillouttes take on an appearance - humanoids, arms crossed. Just as you catch a quick glance, the figures instantly disappear into the shadows.

The druids chaotically, almost violently dance to the beating sound of drums as the wizards begin their ominous chanting, the audience waiting with eager anticipation. Naturally adorned wood elves dance alongside the druids, though with far for finesse to their movements, fluidly moving about the courtyard as if performing interpretive dances. A small few guards (3 or 4) outline the perimeter of the viscinity, holding back the audience from coming too close to the high-arcananic energy field developed during the ritual. You perceive that a number of individuals in the crowd appear hesitant to excite, wary of the enchanting aura of magic that floods the general viscinity. The children, on the other hand, scamper across the courtyard holding hands so as to not lose one another with looks of jubillee and childlike wonder.

Suddenly, radiant sparks generate at the centers of the arcanic-steel gateways. Lightning flashes between the cylindrical arches, stunning the crowd, most of whom shield their eyes from being blinded. A transulent film of blueish-green arcanic energy appears with small rippling waves like a small stone tossed into a sea. Organic material -- shrubbery, fungi, and perhaps, an otherwordly type of vine -- propel forth from the portals wrapping around its perimeter and falling to the ground below. The crowd hushes as the music comes to a stop, silently awaiting the arrival of the fey. You catch your breath at the abruptness of the silence.

A moment passes as the sun fully sets behind the distant mountains and the starlight sky illuminates the backdrop of your gaze fixated on the portals. Finally, faintly luminiscent lantern-like objects seep through the portals trailing small beams of light. They are enchanting, even mesmerizing at first glance, calling you to come close.

The excited expressions that characterized the wizards suddenly shift - their faces sadden, eyes widen, and skin tones pale to a cold white as if they had witnessed the ghost of a tragic murder. Chilling fog emits from the twin portals. Magical darkness suddenly obscures your vision completely. Another moment passes as you stare into the darkness. Children begin wailing, blood-curdling screams for the parents. Several muffled cries can be heard throughout the courtyard. The darkness slowly disippate and your vision becomes clearer. You hear a loud commotion of moaning, as you suddenly realize you are no longer standing with the initial crowd of people who instantly scattered to the alleyways and surrounding buildings to hide, but you are now surrounded by rotting, grotesque corpses.

**Roll initiatve.**
*Note: this is supposed to be a fairly challenging encounter (near impossible
without taking cover), intended to force the players into hiding - their
actions must be very strategic from here on forward...*

Pick a player for a Perception check (DC 15) -- this check will be made again per round -- : A struggling woman to your left is encased in darkness, suffocating for a moment until her restless movement ceases, the darkness subsiding and disappearing.

NPCs:

- The druids immediately misty step to the rooftops, casting entagle, attempting to save civillians. (pacifists)
- Though several wizard corpses are evident, only a couple wizards appear still alive, casting wards and protecting civillians. The student wizards are mostly frozen, their spell slots spent from the game of Bah'ly. The half-orc valiently jumps into combat, swinging with his spiked gauntlets, only to find himself immediately swarmed and quickly taken over - three creatures promptly biting and ripping his flesh apart. The wizards take off running - the dwarven girl holding the half-orc's kobold friend back.
- (Perception Check DC 15) The dwarven barkeep from earlier, about a movement's pace behind the party calls out to the civillians, *"Hurry! Hurry! Get in!*" pressing her hand against their backs to encouragingly nudge them forward into the tavern. A bolt flies out with a bit of smoke... "*Oh, don't worry about that. HAROLD! Now's NOT the time to fix your toys!"*

The courtyard is considered rough terrain because of the number of dead bodies scattered all over the ground. Initiative should be rolled for the environment (will o' wisps), living shadows, zombies, and imperial ghouls (80% chance to revive). While will o' wisps are present, undead gain 1d6 (stacking) temporary hitpoints at the start of their turns.

**At top of initiative 2, roll one d6/8 to select a player:**

"Please... If anyone can hear me. We are the last surviving colony of Astrazalia... We are short on supplies and need immediate medical assistance. Please... If anyone is there..."

**At top of initiative 3+:**

Suddenly the portal to the left sparks uncontrollably, emitting a greenish gas, as a moving mound
of flesh-like matter rolls through. (Corpse Mound)

The first player to go down without a cleric present will find one cleric on their turn after the death saving throw, whom heals them. The cleric's veins all over his body clearly visible with a darkish purple tint, his eyes completely bloodshot. "Go! Run! Save yourself at least!" before being consumed in shadow, the sillouette of his head falling to ground (dead).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**SHADOW**

Medium undead,
chaotic evil

Armor Class: 12 Hit
Points 16 (3d8 + 3) Speed 40ft.

STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA

6 (- 2) 14 (+2) 13 (+1) 6 (- 2) 10 (+0)
8 (-1)

Stealth +4 (+6 in dim
light or darkness)

Damage
Vulnerabilities: radiant

Damage Resistances:
acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from
non magical weapons

Damage Immunities:
necrotic, poison Condition Immunities exhaustion, frightened, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained

Senses darkvision
60ft., passive Perception 10

Languages ---

Challenge 1/2 (100
XP)

***Amorphous.*** The shadow can
move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.

***Sunlight Weakness.*** While in
sunlight, the shadow has disadvantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and
saving throws.

ACTIONS

***Shadow Stealth***. (bonus
action) While in dim light or darkness, the shadow can take the Hide action as
a bonus action.

***Strength Drain.*** Melee Weapon
Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) necrotic damage,
and the target's Strength score is reduced by 1d4. The target dies if this
reduces its Strength to 0. Otherwise, the reduction lasts until the target
finishes a short or long rest. If a non-evil humanoid dies from this attack, a
new shadow rises from the corpse 1d4 hours later.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**GHOUL, IMPERIAL**

Medium undead, lawful
evil

Armor Class 16
(breastplate)

Hit Points 93 (17d8 + 17)

Speed 30 ft., burrow
15 ft.

DEX. STR CON INT WIS CHA

16 (+3) 14 (+2) 12 (+1) 13 (+1)
14 (+2) 14 (+2)

Damage Immunities:
poison

Condition Immunities:
charmed, exhaustion, poisoned

Senses darkvision 60
ft., passive Perception 12

Languages Common,
Darakhul, Undercommon

Challenge 4 (1,100
XP)

***Turning Defiance.*** The iron
ghoul and any ghouls within 30 feet of it have advantage on saving throws
against effects that turn undead.

ACTIONS

***Multiattack***. The imperial
ghoul makes one bite attack and one claws attack.

***Bite.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +5
to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d8 + 3) piercing damage, and if the
target creature is humanoid it must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving
throw or contract *darakhul feve*r*.

***Claws.*** Melee Weapon Attack:
+5 to hit, reach, one target. Hit: 17 (4d6 + 3) slashing damage. If the target
is a creature other than an elf or undead, it must succeed on a DC 11
Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target repeats the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a
success.

***Light Crossbow.*** Ranged Weapon
Attack: +4 to hit, range 80/320, one target. Hit: 8 (1d8 + 2) piercing damage.

**Darakhul Fever**: Spreads mainly through bite
wounds, this rare disease makes itself known within 24 hours by swiftly
debilitating the infected. The creature has the *sickened*
condition for the duration. A creature so afflicted must make a DC 12
Constitution saving throw after every long rest. On a failed save the victim
takes 14 (4d6) necrotic damage, and its hit point maximum is reduced by an
amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction can’t be removed until the
victim recovers from darakhul fever, and even then only by greater restoration
or similar magic. The victim recovers from the disease by making successful
saving throws on two consecutive days. Greater restoration cures the disease;
lesser restoration allows the victim to make the daily Constitution check with
advantage.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**CORPSE MOUND**

Huge undead, neutral
evil

Armor Class 16
(natural armor)

Hit Points 207 (18d12 + 90)

Speed 30 ft.

DEX STR CON INT WIS CHA

24 (+7). 11 (+0)
21 (+5) 8 (-1) 10 (+0)
8 (‒1)

ACTIONS

Saving Throws: Con
+9, Int +3, Wis +4

Damage Resistances:
necrotic

Damage Immunities:
poison

Condition Immunities:
charmed, exhaustion, frightened, poisoned

Senses: darkvision 60
ft., passive Perception 10

Languages:
Understands Common but can’t speak

Challenge 11 (7,200
XP)

***Multiattack.*** The corpse mound
makes two weapon attacks or uses envelop once.

***Slam***. Melee Weapon Attack:
+11 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d10 + 7) bludgeoning damage plus
3 (1d6) necrotic damage and the target is grappled (escape DC 17). Until this
grapple ends, the target is restrained.

***Bone Shard.*** Ranged Weapon
Attack: +11 to hit, range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 14 (2d6 + 7) piercing
damage and 3 (1d6) necrotic damage. When hit, the target must make a successful
DC 17 Strength check or be knocked prone, pinned to the ground by the shard,
and restrained. To end this restraint, the target or a creature adjacent to it
must use an action to make a successful DC 17 Strength (Athletics) check to
remove the shard.

***Envelop.*** The corpse mound
makes a slam attack against a restrained creature. If the attack hits, the
target takes damage as normal, is pulled 5 feet into the corpse mound’s space,
and is enveloped, which ends any grappled or prone condition. While enveloped,
the creature is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and
other effects outside the corpse mound, and it takes 21 (6d6) necrotic damage
at the start of each of the corpse mound’s turns. An enveloped creature can
escape by using its action to make a successful DC 17 Strength saving throw. If
the corpse mound takes 30 or more damage on a single turn from the enveloped
creature, it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw at the end of
that turn or expel the creature, which falls prone in a space within 10 feet of
the corpse mound. If the corpse mound dies, an enveloped creature is no longer
restrained by it and can escape by using 10 feet of movement, exiting prone. A
corpse mound can envelop up to 4 creatures at once.

***Absorb the Dead.*** Whenever a
Small or larger non undead creature dies within 20 feet of the corpse mound,
that creature’s remains join its form and the corpse mound regains 10 hit
points.

***Noxious Aura***. Creatures that
are within 20 feet of the corpse mound at the end of its turn must succeed on a
DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until the end of their next
turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the Noxious Aura
for 24 hours.

***Zombie Drop.*** At the start of
the corpse mound’s turn during combat, one corpse falls from the mound onto the
ground and immediately rises as a zombie under its control. Up to 10 such
zombies can be active at one time. Zombies take their turns immediately after
the corpse mound’s turn.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

### Episode 2: Here Come the Calvary

During this time, The
Royal Eyes of Aundair, the crown's elite covert force under Queen Aurala and
Spy Master Thuel Racannoch, instituted a major operation overseeing the
festival; naturally an event such as this wouldn't go unseen or unmanaged by
the nation's elite defense operatives. Immediately the agents scatter. Suddenly
a magical dome of light blue energy manifests in the skyline, encasing the
entirety of the lower districts, but leaving the majority of the Royal Court
outside of the dome's area. This is emergency protocol 3, intended to isolate
localized infections rather than strictly militarial protection. The barrier is
simply a *ward of protection* emitting
force both internally and externally, redirecting all attacks onto the
attackers (DC 20 STR / attack 20+).

From the rooftops,
you can see the shadowed silhouettes of airships breaking through the barriers
guarding the city. The colors of the ship become easily noticable upon coming
closer. The dark, noble blue shaded vessels hoist banners of silver that shine
in the moonlight - you immediately recognize the heraldic crest of the
dragonhawk engraved into the banners; The Aundairian special ops have arrived.
The skiffs are designed for speed and mobility, utilizing a singular mast,
propeled forward by a long extension of metal pertruding from the front of the
ship like a spear for instant penetration of protective barriers. Small
choppers on both sides of the ships and at the back function as propellers,
accelerating the ships forward with great speed. As the ships approach, the
sound of chopping wind is suddenly silenced arcanically so as to not attract
attention. The back propeller is shut off, the mast is pulled into the body of
the ship as parachutes project from the backs of the ship to slow the vessels
to a stop. The side propellers are rotated vertically to sustain the ship in
the air. The ships eventually deploy extensive ropes dropping down below to the
rooftops of the buildings as cloaked, militant figures descend with immediacy.
The operatives immediately fire steam-propelled grappling hooks and gliders
from artificially constructed apparatuses on their backs keeping them suspended
in the air and guiding their directive as they scan the towering buildings
looking for survivors.

Players can wave down
the ships from the rooftops and be spotted. The spies scan the players
immediately, "Has anyone been bitten or is there anyone in severe need of
medical attention? Is there anyone else still in the area? ... Please remain
calm. You will be relocated to a secured waiting area where you will be
questioned and released in a timely manner once it is safe. Are you
ready?"

A volley of arrows
promptly cover the viscinity, striking the undead with clean shots directly
through the skulls and torsos followed by flashes of light as blazing orbs of
fire plummet to ground causing uniformed explosions all over the courtyard.
(DEX saving throw 15 - 8d6 fire damage + 2d6 piercing damage from shrapnel of
concrete or half-damage). The corpse mound remains with a majority of its
hitpoints, now bursting with flaming and releasing an agnoizing scream.

The players are one
by one escorted above to the ships, each accomodated by a spy using
artificially enchanted *gloves of dimension door*.
Those still remaining in the courtyard are quickly accompanied by operatives
who remove the gloves, press their bare hands against the skins of the dying
and cast *cure wounds*.

The commonfolk in the
tavern are mostly silent, awestruck, but doing their best to help in whatever
way they can. Some of them quietly complain, "First the war... Now this.
Maybe those damn preachers were right when they said the endtimes are near."
Another pipes up, "What do you think those creatures were?"...
"Ah, well, I got a good look at 'em. They was the walking dead. Damned
wizards probably opened up portals to the wrong place." Another, an
educated wizard, probably by the looks of his robes and long grey, scragly
beard, his eyes widen, especially magnified by his large spectacles,
"That... was sabotage. Karrnathians clearly bypassed our borders by
intercepting our trans-dimensional, inter-planar travel devices and planting
their own gateways in the midst of their genetically-enhanced undead
armies!"... "You're scaring the children! And how dare you blaspheme
Karrnath's new king equating him with his nefarious grandfather? King Kaius III
is the best hope we have to finally maintaining peace between the
nations!"

As the operatives
arrive, "WHERE IS MY HUSBAND?!" a woman shouts from inside the
tavern. The crowd's scared silence turns into an uproar. "PLEASE, everyone
must remain calm in order for us to ensure the immediate transportation of each
and every one of you to safety in an orderly fashion."

**If the players choose to go underground...**

From the tavern the
players should have retreated to, the players will find an entrance to a series
of tunnels excavated by what the bartender believes to be kobolds who have been
stealing her goods from the basement. In actuality the tunnels lead to the
undergrounds of Fairhaven *(Brickenhall),*
including an area with families of secluded shifters hiding in secret, an
entire underground river system for rapid transport of blackmarket goods, and a
number of thieve's guilds, including the Dark Dagger Gang, the most notorious
group of criminals in Aundair, headed by Kreelo, a changling and the most
wanted criminal in Fairhaven, now headquartered in an abandoned Silver Flame
cathedral. The area has remained seclusive through *hallucinatory terrian* ward (area-effect) spell which surrounds
the entire underground system in layers of stone. Additionally, much of the
river system is actually the repurposed waters of Fairhaven's sewage lines,
cleaned through prestidigitation gems integrated within the rivers bed. A
bi-directional water flow has been achieved through a multitude of small,
arcanic pedestals with gems of *control water*
in every branch of the river system. Finally, orbs of *everbright* function as dim-light lanterns providing soft glows
of light to each branch of the river - a well-lit river system reduces
potential for unmonitored violence and theft. The passageways lead a number of
directions, the most obvious of which goes to Adderhall, a highly secured area
controlled by the Royal Eyes of Aundair, primarily for hostage holding and
interrogation (this is where the wizards will be escorted).

**If the players enter the Feywild...**

Astrazalia, the City of Starlight, has become the new dwelling place of Emporer Nicoferus the Pale, emporer of the Ghouls of the Shadowfell. Nicoferus led his armies in victory against the night elves after they took up residence in Astrazalia following the fall of Titania, the Summer Queen. If a player has contracted Darakhul Fever, this can only be cured with a greater restoration spell. The player makes the save, if fail, the player awakens from the long rest sweating profusely and coughing up blood. Their eyes are completely bloodshot; their skin are ghastly pale colour.

**If the players go with the Special Ops...**

After docking, those who are not operatives are blindfolded ("standard procedure") before being led down a flight of stairs, a number of floors down below. You pass by rooms that emit somewhat strange sounds... Clanging. Clacking. Electrical discharge and screams of agony. And finally silence. A creaking door in front of you breaks the quiet and those who of you are not agents are thrown into a waiting room.

An older woman, a halfling presumably given her height, rotates in a finely crafted, leather seat, her presence mostly concealed in the shadows of the room. She inches forward, her face gradually receiving the golden light of a luminiscent *moonlight stone* lamp on her desk. She rocks in her chair for a moment.

"It's been a long time Agent Barden, do tell me. How was vacation? And Karlen, dearest, may I interest you in a cup of the finest Queen's Grey tea? I apologize for intervening on your holiday with such short notice, but your assistance is needed now more than ever. I trust that you've found a group of mercenaries to work with for this next mission as expected. We will be deploying you as the second set of operatives through the portal. Your mission is simply this... Survive. Survive and return. We will need any information you gain from this.... Hold on... (phone) Very well, I have another group we can deploy that will be much less of a loss. Yes, sir." (phone off. I've just been informed one of our elite operative squads has been discovered to be double agents of Karrnath. Surprise, surprise. They're even more suspect of saboutaging our portals now. Well, then. My apologies for the sudden change of plans; your skills are more needed elsewhere. You will be undertaking the mission assigned to them up until now. In short, it is a train heist. More detail will soon follow. Barden, get your team to the docking bay. Be sure to stop by the Department of Technological Inquiry (TI) before you leave. Good luck."

The TI Department presents the players with the following:

- *Commlink* - communication-enablement eyepiece that optionally creates a small projection of the person communicating or any other video message that is being transferred
- *Gloves of reconnaissance* - divination-enchanted, fingerless gloves; allows the bearer to see and hear through 5ft of material (1/short rest)
- *Clamps of levitation* - functions like *tenser's floating disk*; enables an object (500 lbs) to hover up to 5ft off of the ground for ease of carrying (2/day)
- *Neuro-suggestive parchment* - illusory credentials (WIS DC 15)
- *Suit of Athletics* - advantage on all Athletics checks (5/day)
- *Wristwatch of Color Spray* - enables to wearer to cast *color spray* (3/day)

085 - Barden

086 - Karlen

Wenzel (spirit trapped inside of a *Wand of Fireball/Pyrotechnics "Yeehaw!"* (7/7 charges))

- **Quotes:** "Hey... What the fuck do you want me to cast?" "What kind of wand do you think I am?!" "Alright, doll face, let me warm up first." "Hey look, fireworks! Hah, happy new year"
- **Fireworks:** The fire explodes. Each creature within 10 feet of the fire must pass a Constitution save or be blinded until the end of your next turn.
- **Smoke:** Thick smoke spreads out in a 20-foot radius, moving around corners. The area is heavily obscured. The smoke lasts for 1 minute or until a strong wind disperses it.
- **Gags:** Prestidigitation (fireworks), Color Spray/Grease (on owner)
- Casting **Fireball** *requires* a Persuasion check (DC 15). This check increases by +1 per cast per day.
- Previous owner: Master Makim Cyre Maestro (currently in jail in Aundair)

### Episode 3: Train Heist

At the Royal Eyes of Aundair HQ, the players will be given a mission to acquire a collection of Siberys Dragonshards excavated from the continent of Xen'drik.

Before you get on to your skycoach you hear this briefing:

"Agents, your strike team has been tasked with liberating a highly valuable shipment of artifacts from a lightning rale heading to Sharn to be sold at auction to the highest bidder. The primarily targeted artifact has been identified as a luminescent, yellow finely-cut gem often encrusted within a stone exterior. Intel suggest that this may be a dragonshard used in creation forges to make warforged and if so could be the cause of the Mourning itself. The item needs to be appropriated and researched, but once sold it will likely become untraceable. This is our best opportunity. The plan, from your superiors, is to subdue the guards on the train, take possession of the shipment, and make your escape via skycoach through Sharn and across the Tiger River. Your skycoach will have a highly skilled driver and operative, one of us. You can expect interference from the Sky Guardians as well as the Sharn Watch. We have also been informed that we may not be the only ones after the artifacts. Additionally, we have a single operative already aboard the train as we speak, who has made certain preparations to ensure everything goes smoothly. The train arrives during one of the usual daily downpours which should help obscure your escape. Good luck agents."

The players will be boarding the train just past Tavick's Landing, an aristocratic self-contained kingdom for the wealthy on the eastern side of Sharn.

With that, we will go ahead and set the scene of Sharn. As your skycoach which you can look at as a small skiff skims across the clouds, parting them as you move, you can start to see the rain spatter against the electric blue, green neons of the skyline of Sharn, the City of Towers. With the setting sun moving down, taking that final evanescence off of the clouds, all that is left is the dark with the contrasting lights of the waiting conductor stones that start to weave their ways up to the towers up to what you can only assume is a bank of dwarven design - something impenetrable to anyone except to those that belong to the guild of the House of Kundarak. This is perhaps the only window in which you can achieve your objective. As you start to see the sparks of the conductor stone getting ready for their oncoming train, your skiff starts to move close to the side of the track, waiting as the Lightning Rail races toward you, your driver Krulek, a goblin wearing a black trenchcoat over a cloth undershirt, makes sure to pull you in for one last briefing. 

Krulek speaks, *"*Alright guys, here's the deal... Just jump on, get the damned crystals and I'll be waiting on the other side. We needs to be focused and fast to get this done right. Any questions?... I will give you the signal when to jump. Great, here's the train coming, now. Go, go, go, go!" Those that hesitate can roll a slight-of-hand check as your hand reaches to grab onto the train. (See *Riding the Rail* campaign)

The train is additionally transporting a rectangular column from Xen'drik inscribed with arcanical glyphs and strange runes. A specialized, genetically modified, procedurally generated aberration (known as the Keepers) hijacked the train's bound elemental and directed the train onto an unfinished track. Once the train is destroyed the column, which would presumably be kept in tact, would be transported to Karnath for research and to used by Count Vedim ir’Omik in his creations for the oncoming *necrogenesis*. (See *Magic of Eberron*).

The train consists of the following carts in order from back:

- Military Transport Cart
- Military Kitchen
- Conductor Stone Platform
- Passenger Cart (2 *living sleep spells*, 2 thugs, Reafrin Sieslil (supposed mystical creature handler))
- Dining Room (8 thugs)
- Galley (hired-out changling thug in disguise as a waiter)
- Luxury Cart (2 thugs in north-east *rope trick* room)
- Guardian Storage Crate Cart (2 Gearforged Templar, dragonstone shards)
    - 2 Keepers (one attempts to grapple one character, holding a dagger to the character's throat)
    - *TOB* Clockwork Weaving Spider (+20 AC)
- Xen'drik Column Cart
- Crew Cart (Gendry, artificer)
- Caboose

Rewards for killing Gentry:

- Potion of Cure Wounds
- Potion of Mind Reading
- Wand of Magic Missles
- Wand of Minor Cure Wounds (4/6 charges)
- Wand of Scorching Ray (7 charges) **

** - requires attunement by spellcaster

When the airship returns to pick up the players in the skies of Sharn, the players will be entering a manifest zone between the towers of Sharn and the plane Syrania, Azure Sky. Any spells cast while in this zone produce an uncontrollable whirlwind that grants the caster flight speed of 10ft. The caster's direction is randomly determined and the caster cannot take opportunity attacks. The vessel will be flying just beneath Sharn's Skyway, a magically suspended city-within-a-city hovering on gigantic metal disks of force -- an actual extension of the city. The airship's cockpit has a magical rounded projection screen which can be controlled by a headpiece to give the pilot 360 degree perspective of the ship. Additionally, the helm includes 8 levers which can be used to control the ship:

[Airship : Manual Controls](Eberron%201%20Bride%20of%20Shadows%20bd36afa212674edcb7601d29a110fce5/Airship%20Manual%20Controls%20d273aa74e63c4c8ebd639bd10b527a95.csv)

**Scenario: *A Hasty Escape***

The Sharn Watch will be on the tail of the players. "This is the Sharn Watch. You are flying in a non-aerial transportation zone. Pull over and prepare for docking. This is your first and final warning." After two rounds of combat (or less if the PCs respond), operatives from the Sharn Watch skycoaches will deploy, propelled by steam-powered aparatuses in an attempt to get onto the deck (the pilot can maneuver the ship to make this more difficult - DC 15 INT). Mages aboard the Sharn Watch vessels will fire *lightning bolt* at those aboard the airship until Krulek casts *Greater Globe of Invulnerability* to project a ward around the ship against the attacks. A number of other airships can be spotted up ahead (DC 10 Perception) surrounding and in line to dock on Lyrander Tower for primarily commercial reasons. This PC's airship could reposition the PCs onto an airship in the field of the tower or attempt to dock at the tower itself to make an escape, however the ship that the PCs are aboard looks obviously suspicious.

**LEVEL UP**

Information about lightning rail stations:

[http://eberron.wikia.com/wiki/Lightning_Rail_Station](http://eberron.wikia.com/wiki/Lightning_Rail_Station)

- Escaping Sharn via Skycoach and taking out the ship behind... Unlikely. TODO: make combat scenario for this w/ stats. Take into account the heavily wounded players. => Likely to be followed by additional ships ("Sky Guardians").
- Alternatively, taking the government's ship and impersonating the guards.
- Docking at Tower of Lyrander & making escape via disguise.
- Claim to be saving the passengers from a runaway train
- Crashing?

### Episode 4: Dealing with Death

Sharn has many temples, which do not provide healing or resurrection services (and often believing religion to be sinful to do so for various reasons). Sharn does have hospitals of Jorasco, a halfling dragonmarked house with the *Mark of Healing*, however resurrection services
have been banned for the last four centuries (686 YK). The hospital's *Altar of Resurrection* has since been stolen, believed to be stolen by a cult of the Blood of Vol (cultists/religious fanatics). The altar has since been moved to Fairhaven where lies the headquarters of the Cult of Life and the largest order in the Blood of Vol.

Torven “the Ageless” d’Medani is a half-elf vampire lord, the leader of the Cult of Life in Fairhaven, and one of the cult’s principles in Khorvaire. Although House Medani’s authorities believe he is dead, he maintains power and influence over a few choice house scions in the Fairhaven enclave and elsewhere.

Consider *Grasp of the Emerald Claw* (follow-up to WVB
& SoLW), *Whispers of the Vampire Blade*,
or *Eyes of the Lich Queen* as follow-up.

### Other Episodes: A Step Back in Time

Obviously by this point Karrnath is under suspicion. The Eldeen Reaches breach of the undead is causing a problem on the northwestern borderns of Aundair, though Madam P. is unsure of whether this is an attempt at a multifrontal war by Karrnath, but this is unlikely.

Alternatively, *Voyage of the Golden Dragon* or *Whispers of the Vampire Blade* (starts in Sharn) or a questline based on *Secrets of Xendrick* can easily follow the *Riding the Rails* campaign. Lastly there's *Seekers of the Ashen Crown*, which also starts in Sharn and has value for the purpose of gathering information on a powerful device which can be utilized to control undead armies. Once the players begin dealing with the Blood of Vol, *Eyes of the Lich Queen* reasonably follows. Alternatively, convert Savage Tide to Eberron.

This part of the campaign will be based on the historical narrative of the Last War (see *Forge of War*). The PCs will be utilized by the Arcanix Archmages to gather information from the past as to the whereabouts of a powerful artifact supposedly lost or destroyed during the war.

The players will soon have the option to build a completely new distant ancestor. The gnomish Artificer Association of Aundair (AAA) having incorporated top sages and wizards (including top graduates from the University of Arcanix) all under the governed direction of the The Royal Eyes of Aundair, in an effort to gain lost knowledge during the Last War have designed top-secret, highly-classifed *sleep pods* aka "time lapse assistant agents" which utilize divination enchantments (*legend lore*, *vision*) to enable users to revisit the pasts of their long diseased blood-relatives whom are key officials, war heroes, and assassins - alternatively if no blood relatives during the War are available, a suitable noble host similar to the user can be offered instead.

A number of powerful tools and artifacts were utilized during the Last War, some of which are believed to still exist - the players will use information gathered from seeping their minds into the minds of their ancestors in order to locate where pieces of these objects could possibly be now, in the modern era.

Theoretically, other factions/nations may have been attempting the design and development of time travel devices or spells in order to change the resulting outcomes from the Last War to put that faction/nation in a more advantageous position politically in the modern era, however it cannot be said whether or not these experimental attempts have been successful - this is because a successful attempt would entail a change in world-line and thus would be undetectable to a world line where the events of the Last War have already unfolded. The players, however, could potentially participate in one of these attempts, and if successful, change the current world line to another. However, in order to finalize the completion of these devices, powerful gemstones known as dragonshards must be acquired... See mission above.

Once the time-lapse assistance pods have been completed, the players should be informed certain details about their potential new hosts as well as: "Please be careful not to do anything too outrageous. This may not be official time-travel, but it's the closest we can afford right at the moment. Any changes you make will persist and potentially have detrimental effects on the stream of time following, to the point where this whole current situation may never have actually happened - you're being here today could change, which means your minds could remain stuck in the past inhabiting the new hosts bodies... That or your consciousness could just disappear from existence entirely. But that's probably the least of your worries."

### Other Episodes: A Warforged Murderer (Sharn)

A notorious war forged murderer has been tried for war crimes and is being transferred to dead hold from the citadel. Meanwhile, the race of the 8 winds in going on. The party is in town to see the race. During the transport a group of war forged aligned with the Lord of Blades attacks the transport and manages to free the elemental bringing the airship down in middle dura during the race. In the ensuing chaos the war forged (who is actually a hexblade warlock) escapes and attempts to continue his murderous path of vengeance by killing Haydith, the sister of King Kaius of Karrnath who is in Sharn for the race. Rhe group intercedes and are wounded by the Warforged murderers blade, which siphons a piece of their soul... Haydith flees and activates her escape plan which is to flee to the lightning trail and head to Wroat. I need the group to catch up to the train before it leaves to set up a train attack by the warforged....

Great rumbling shook the crumbling halls as the doors slid apart allowing access to the tomb beyond. Dusty braziers lined the walls and in the center of the room stood an enormous glistening obsidian sarcophagus wrapped in rusted chains. Silent as night, the ‘forged crossed the threshold. The lid was carved in exquisite detail and displayed an evil fanged maw which covered the length of the stone. Each of the ‘forged movements up to this point had been patient and deliberate, making sure no traps or wards awaited him. Now, however, an undeniable urgency filled his stone and steel body, ran rampant along his rootlike sinews. He gripped the edge of the sarcophagus and flipped the lid from the base reducing the age weakened chains to dust. Dust and smoke rose from the interior. Inside the remains of a fierce warrior lay in
repose. The flesh had long ago withered until only the dry bones remained, housed in the tattered remnants of age consumed armor. Laying in a double fisted skeletal grip on the chest of the corpse lay an immaculate blade, untouched by time. A long sword of an alien black metal with glittering specks of green throughout, lay upon the ruined corpse. It’s edge un-dulled by the passage of time. The ‘forged slide his hand around the blade and pulled it from the decayed grasp of the corpse. As he did so the remains of the ancient warlord collapse into a putrid billowing cloud. The ‘forged marveled at the beauty of weapon. The balance was perfect. This was a weapon designed for taking life. He could imagine the feeling of freedom as it cut through the flesh of his foes. He could taste the blood on his lips as the sword drank
deeply of their blood, consuming their souls in the process. Each foe cut down fed the blade, sated its unending hunger, his hunger…. Something deep inside of him realized the thoughts were not his own almost too late. He recoiled from the psychic intrusion but could not force himself to drop the blade. “What are you?” The voice echoed in his head. He felt much like an insect, pinned to a board and dissected by some university professor. His thoughts slowed to mush as the presence seemed to flow throughout his mind and body. “You are… different… not a man… but filled with life… with purpose. Tell me do you yet know your purpose?” The ‘forged was held tight, unable to move, but his conscious answered “I was built by House Cannith and sold to Karrnath as a weapon of war” “A slave then.” The voice interrupted. “Do you not crave your freedom? These weak mortals do not have the power to keep you enslaved. You do that yourself. You allow yourself to be enslaved. I can offer more. A bargain to benefit us both.” A brilliant flash of pain erupted in his mind’s eye and he could see the offer before him, the power being offered. The freedom. What were the humans to him? Slavers. Taskmasters. Years of mistreatment by his Karrnathi masters, treated as nothing but a tool, a thing… property… Without hesitation the ‘forged knew his decision. “I agree.” The glittering green specks in the blade began to glow sending shifting shadows across the tomb walls. The specks erupted into eerie green flames which quickly spread to his hands and up his arms. The ‘forged screamed in agony as the flames burned deep into his very being. He dropped to his knees as the flames continued to spread. Just as suddenly, the flames dissipated. The ‘forged, still on his knees, looked to his empty hands. The sword was gone but his hands and in fact his entire body seemed to be stained green. Had he been able to see himself, he would have seen the Ghurla, the unique sigil carved upon the forehead of each and every Warforged was gone, burned off by the strange green flames. He slowly got to his feet, hand held out and willed the sword into being. Wispy green smoke appeared and coalesced into the blade gripped tight in his hand. Hunger like he had never felt consumed him… not hunger for food, but hunger for vengeance… for the slaughter of those who would dare to enslave him. A thirsting hatred for the living races who believed him to be lesser than they. No… the Thirsting Hatred was who he once was… what he was now was new. Something more. The Blade Wraith examined the blade testing the weight and balance. Tilting his head to the side, he gripped the glowing blade in both hands. With a guttural roar, the blade split into two…. Twin sabres formed from what was once a single long sword. With a thought the swords vanished and then reappeared. The Blade Wraith reveled in his newly acquired power as he turned back towards the entrance to the ruins, back towards the weak little creatures that would dare claim ownership over him… and the voice in his head, his new master and partner was pleased…

Basically he launches a campaign killing Karrnathi Royalty, ambassadors, or anyone he deems to embody the Karrnathi ideals. Once the Last War ended he sought out diplomats to weaken the Karrnathi Nation. He was captured in Breland in an attempt to kill the Karrnathi Princess Haydith.