# Eberron 8: Enter Sarlona

> *"What do you mean, you don't intend to stay? Where are you bound, traveler? Riedra? Without the rare permission of its lords, you enter the land of the Inspired at your peril. The Tundra? If the shifter hordes don't get you first, its weather will slay you outright, friend. Adar? Passing its mountain walls will as likely get you killed by the monks who hide there as the Riedrans who hunt them. But if you seek Sarlona, traveler, you
have already found it. Welcome to Syrkarn."*

### Entry

The player's best chances of entry would be through the Lhzaar Principalities trade route with *Syrkarn*.

- Ardhmen, the province of Lamecha in Syrkarn.

*From the Principalities*. Mundane and soarwood sailing ships leave from several ports, but Prince Kolberkon's relationship with House Lyrandar makes Port Verge (Questor Island, LP) the only place where one can get passage on a wind galleon or a Lyrandar sailing ship. Dvaarnava, a shore-side city in Adar does have a "secret" port, known by few.

### Ardhmen, Syrkarn

"Ardhmen!" they called out a half-hour before, but in all that time, you've been scanning the horizon to no avail. Your passage has calmed since the ship rounded the cape and left the Sea of Rage behind, but though you can see other ships ahead, the city remains somehow obscured from your sight.

Then you realize suddenly that the reason you can't see the city is that there isn't one.

Before you, the great stone docks of the past eclipse a field of fishing cogs and haphazardly scattered neighborhoods of canvas, sod, and stone. A half-dozen wood-frame buildings along the waterfront rise to a story-and-a-half, but the remainder of the town is all single-floored huts and longhouses spread against the setting sun. In Stormreach, you remember the ruins climbing skyward from the steep shoreline, but the flatness here makes it hard to tell where the shore even begins. In Sharn, you've seen house enclaves that took up more space than this.

Even after decades of Lhazaar trade, Ardhmen remains little more than clusters of fishing huts, transitory nomadic trader enclaves,
and the ancient stone dock remnants of the port city that
was leveled in the ancient mage wars.

**Plot Ideas**

- 1. ) The "Chosen" of the Inspired having seeded the collective mind of Riedra, seek world conquest in order to ensure an end to the cycle of Dal Torei on behalf of *il-Lashtavar*, the Dreaming Dark. They send the "Circle of Night" or "Shadows" to Khorvaire to ensure their plans unfold as foreseen. They do not seek to invade Khorvaire, but to bring their elder quori deities unto Eberron. They believe their salvation ultimately resides in Eberron. The Dark have successfully infiltrated and thus, compromised every major organization in Khorvaire by manipulating the decisions of these international corporations to serve the purposes of the Quori.

Encounters: Golem Eye (TOB, 233)

Other dungeon-crawl ideas (Sarlona):

- War Mazes of Ohr Kaluun in Sarlona: the people of Ohr Kaluun were obsessed with protecting their dark secrets from the world; a nation that was a center for Dark Six rituals and wizards that traded with fiends before it fall. A ruin labyrinthine fortresses shielded against scrying and teleportation, ancient restless spirits, constructs, Ogre mages, Inspired resistance hideout...
- A lost Cannith forge running on automatic
- Subterranean trail to the Adar Monasteries

**Io'lokar, the City of Knowledge**, Sarlona, the border between Adar and Riedra, Corvangura Province SW

**Ongoing History of Khorvaire**

There's a unified Lhazaar Confederacy, led by a woman calling herself Roe Farwynd ir'Lhazaar. Jaela Daran is taking a stronger stance in leading her country, and Cardinal (Whatsisname) is standing aside but handling the 'dirty business'. Haydith ir'Wyrnarn has won over the Brelish Parliament, in a famous filibuster against Ruken ir'Clair and his democracy agitators, and is elected as Queen of Breland. Cyran Prince Oargev tries to get Eastern Breland to secede into "New Cyre", but is soundly shut down. Aurala has most of her pieces in play for the next War, but waits for something else to trigger it. Kaius has begun to use aging makeup, and has begun to search for an heir, leading some warlords to start agitating things.

Droaam remains unrecognised, but the hags have successfully negotiated most of their warlords into a martial state, which is remarkably stable. They were not invited to the continued Thronehold summits, but think it's only a matter of time. Lhesh Haruuc has bowed (somewhat) to Dhakaani pressure and has officially taken a dirge singer as a "wife" in law, though the tribes still refuse to consider him a good leader. Valenar is essentially a Khoravar nation, led by House Lyrandar or obviously-picked Lyrandar loyalists, the horsemen having conceded almost total administrative control to the House. The lowland orcs in the Mror Holds successfully petition to be acknowledged as a Principality of Lhazaar, causing no small amount of consternation amongst the dwarves.

"Eberron has a Shadowfell, just as the core world of the D&D game does. Also called the Plane of Shadow, the Shadowfell encompasses both Dolurrh, the Realm of the Dead, and a region of shadows and despair called Mabar, the Endless Night. Once every 20 years, on the nights before the new moon that precedes the winter solstice, Mabar draws near to Eberron and its presence is felt more strongly: shadows grow colder, undead and creatures of shadow emerge to stalk the night, and the wards guarding rifts between the world and the Shadowfell weaken. These dark nights are commonly known as the Winterhaunt."

**Warforged Plague**

After a four year time-skip the warforged have started to shut down. It happens with almost no warning, sometimes they'll shut down in the middle of the street. Once a warforged goes dark it's only a matter of months or weeks until every other warforged that was created in the series to shut down. House Cannith has done their best to suppress talk about the warforged plague but the warforged communities, where they exist, are absolutely terrified.

The warforged have split into three factions. Those that believe this plague was engineered by House Cannith as a forced obsolence have been radicalized and have begun a pilgrimage to the Mournlands seeking answers, chasing legends about a lost master forge, or following the Lord of Blades who could be their salvation. Only a few are fatalistic enough to believe that this is their own "natural" life cycle and have already given up hope. The last group is the most unfortunate, terrified and desperate, they think that if this plague has a cure, House Cannith is the only one with the knowledge and resources to develop the solution in time. They've given themselves over House Cannith. Every warforged that's returned to Cannith has legally agreed to forfeit their status of personhood as outlined in the Treaty of Thronehold.

The true cause for this plague is darker and older than any would believe. While the popular conspiracy is that House Cannith designed Warforged with planned obsolescence and are responsible for the plague, it goes back even further.

House Cannith's warforged designs were "inspired" by schemas created by ancient giants and found in the jungle ruins of Xendrik. The giant's schemas were created during their war with the Quori- an unthinking solider that never slept and couldn't be influenced by the enemy. Unfortunately those designs were actually quori designs implanted in the giant artificers, inception style.

When a warforged is created, it has a consciousness and personality. The warforged personality is unique to itself just like a ghulra and is actually a portion of a quori consciousness. Over years or decades, the quori can slowly reform their consciousness. The quori never meant to win their battle against the giants, they wanted to win the war by having the giants craft them an army of warforged that would hold and protect the Quori for a few decades/centuries until they were ready to take the material plane when the dust settled.

Warforged designs were never mass produced during the war with the giants. It was only during the last war that warforged were crafted en masse. When the warforged go dark, it's really the pieces of a Quori that has gestated and is able to fully reform and exist in the material plane.

The Inspired have become deeply interested in Khorvaire over the recent decades, seeing Khorvaire as instrumental to their salvation. In their pursuits, Cannith has become employed, designing a system of intra-planar network connections through the Dreamspace. The warforged have acted as temporal sanctuaries for rogue Quori spirits, an experiment that has proven successful consequent to the recent mass production of warforged. Not all of these warforged are malevolent or working on behalf of the Dreaming Dark; some are wandering spirits, survivors whose travels through the Dreamspace has been expedited by means of creation forges.

**Implications**

- The economy of some nations have been utterly destroyed once the warforged population went dark or left for Cannith/Mournlands
- Whole nations and the dragonmarked houses are looking at Cannith as a threat since they now have an entire army of nihlistic warforged at their disposal (at least for the next year or so)
- There is an unknown nation of warforged forming in the Mournlands under the Lord of Blades
- Darguun is rapidly growing in strength and wealth as their mercenary forces are filling a vacuum
- The reach and ability of Kech Volaar and Darguun's espionage apparatus is giving even the Trust a run for their money
- Five nations have a dozen different reasons to dissolve the Treaty of Thronehold
- Riedra is becoming far more active and engaged in the politics of Khorvaire

**Quori Plot Resources**

As far as novels go, Keith Baker wrote the Dreaming Dark trilogy, and apparently in the third book, "The Gates of Night," they go to Dal Quor to stop an invasion. "Secrets of Xen'drik" has some information on ancient Quori outposts and creation forges, as well as Quorcraft Warforged. There are adventure outlines for racing Inspired agents to a creation forge, as well as negotiating with a Quori spirit into releasing a dream prison. Another adventure in there is the Glaive of the Darkest Depths, where the quori hid and sealed away a giant-age weapon, one of the Destiny Arms, which could open a way to Dal Quor. The other three weapons of the Destiny Arms have their own adventure hooks too.

TODO: Take inspiration from CoC, Dark Sun Campaign Setting, Warframe (for plot)

[https://www.pcgamer.com/how-a-clever-plot-twist-completely-reshapes-warframes-story/](https://www.pcgamer.com/how-a-clever-plot-twist-completely-reshapes-warframes-story/)

Incorporate: Sanity/Madness, Dread and Dreams as plot devices

- Snorri, having returned from Xoriat, inbued with a symbiotic creature which feeds off of his sanity in exchange for a new type of strength / armor (see Daeklyr half-blood)

**THINGS TO INCORPORATE**

- the city that went entirely mad in Sarlona...
- *Temple of the Deep Ones* from Books & Lairs for 5 Edition
    - - sinking city type plot (with the underwater civilization)
- 

**KHORVAIRE**

- What's Thrane up to?
    - Cardinal Krozen, influenced by the Inspired, orchestrated the "kidnapping" of the Keeper of the Flame, framing the Dark Lanterns of Breland in order to potentially reignite the war between Thrane and Breland (convincing the rest of the Council to take action).
    - Krozen's resurrection instigated and overseen by **Durastoran the Wyrmbreaker**, Bel Shalor's *prakhutu.*
    - What is the Inquisition up to?
- What's Karrnath up to?
    - What's Cannith East up to?
- What's Aundair up to?
    - What are the Royal Eyes up to?
- What's Breland up to?
- What's Zilargo up to?
    - What's the Trust up to? (Why is the Trust uninterested in the blade?)

**POSSIBLE ARCHS**

- Demon Wastes / Shadow in the Flame (Fangli // Lords of Dust)
- Q'barra / Argonessan *Eyes of the Lich Queen*
- Thellanis / Bride of Shadows (Syndra)
- Sarlona / Dreaming Dark (C'thulu)
- Blood of Vol / Mark of Death (Chris's backup character)

**Organizations**

*Thousand Eyes* -

**[https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Quori](https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Quori)**

- the Inspired
- the Chosen
- The Dreaming Dark - Located in the heart of Dal Quor, the **Dreaming Dark** is a force composed of the spirits of thousands of Quori and mortal dreamers that have been absorbed over the millennia. The Dreaming Dark has long been the driving force behind the quori, but its motives and goals are *impossible for the mortal mind to comprehend*. The Devourer of Dreams is the only being who can commune with the Dark without being absorbed and destroyed, and he can channel a fraction of its immense power. The **Quori** are the spawn of the Dark.
- **Thoughtstealers** are the eyes of the Dark. Psions specializing in telepathy and clairsentience, they can read secrets in the minds and auras of others. Thoughtstealer hosts are usually trained as rogues or monks. A few thoughtstealers become Quori nightmares, using the powers of the nightmare to read the dreams of their opponents. **Dominators** are trained to manipulate minds and events, use psionic power and natural guile. Their psionic powers are focused on controlling thoughts, and while their hosts are usually trained as rogues the emphasis is on Charisma based skills. **Dreamblades** are the assassins of the Dreaming Dark. The Quori prefer to use manipulation as opposed to force, but when bloodshed is the only answer the dreamblades are ruthless and deadly. Dreamblades are typically psychic warriors as opposed to psions; the most skilled are Quori nightmares or soulknives. Hosts are trained as fighters, monks, or rogues. The Dark possesses an elite corps of dreamblades who are trained to fight psionic foes; this unit includes psions with disciplines like *negate psionics* and *null psionics field*. These specialists are deployed against rogue shadows and the kalashtar. **The Circle of Night.** The actions of the field agents are coordinated by the Circle of Night. The Circle is comprised of the most powerful psions among the Inspired, and only the members of the circle have the power to implant a mind seed. The leader of the Circle is formally known as the Devourer of Dreams, but this title is usually shortened to "the Dreamer". While the Dreamer is the de facto leader of the organization, he serves a still greater power -- the Dreaming Dark itself.

*The Passage of Time*. Physically, the agents of the Dreaming Dark are scattered across Eberron. However, when one of the Inspired sleeps, her spirit returns to her fiendish body in Dal Quor. The Dreaming Dark maintains a vast city-fortress in Dal Quor, and the Circle of Night controls the actions of the dark from the heart of this citadel. While all members of the Dreaming Dark have host bodies on Eberron, many members of the Circle of Night make little use of these bodies; as a result they are always to be found in Dal Quor, where they can take the reports of agents of the Dark and provide new orders. For every minute of time that passes on Eberron, ten minutes passes in Dal Quor; as a result, when an Inspired agent spends 4 hours asleep, she has 40 hours in Dal Quor to report to the Circle of Night, coordinate with allies, and prepare for future missions. Shadow agents have less power and control in the Region of Dreams, but the Circle of Night can draw the spirit of a dreaming shadow to the citadel to receive new orders. The net result is that the Dreaming Dark invariably acts with careful planning and perfect coordination; over the course of a night, an agent in Khorvaire could spread a piece of valuable information across the length of the world.

**Dal Quor**

- Citadel of Fading Dreams

### Kalashtar Names

Kalashtar names are three to five syllables long and feature hard and hissing consonants. Male names end with one of the following suffixes -harath, -khad, melk or tash. Whilst female names end with the female suffixes -kashtai, -shana, -tari or -vakri.

**Male Names:** Halkhad, Havrakhad, Kanatash, Lanamelk, Lanharath, Malharath, Minharath, Nevitash, Parmelk, Thakakhad, Thinharath.

**Female Names:** Ganitari, Khashana, Lakashtari, Mevakri, Novakri, Panitari, Sorashana, Thakashtai, Thatari.