# Eberron: One-Shot - Doomsday's Children (Forge of War)

A flashback campaign works best when the PCs’ success is determined by events in both time periods, or at least requires the players and characters to make use of knowledge gained in the flashbacks to succeed in the modern era. Doomsday’s Children does not only this, but drives home the mental and emotional scars of the Last War that have not yet begun to heal. Both groups of PCs, flashback and modern, are soldiers (or at least citizens) of Thrane.

Doomsday’s Children begins with a flashback to the mid-960s. Karrnath has lost many troops to Thrane’s armies and is bogged down in the Thaliost region. Several Karrnathi warlords and generals are attempting to regroup using slightly unorthodox strategies. One of these is General Balthas Greist. A militant zealot and cleric of Vol, Greist has deliberately seeded several Thrane communities with plague, thus weakening the defenders before his undead legions attack. This disease is extremely virulent at the source—such as a contaminated well or a “patient zero”—but does not spread more than one or two iterations beyond, ensuring that it cannot rage out of control. The flashback PCs are among the defenders of one of these communities.

**Objective:** They must find a way to ward off the advancing undead with shortages of personnel and allies dropping all around them, to say nothing of avoiding the illness themselves. Their best bet is to try to track down the source of the plague before the undead arrive, but the DM should consider any other reasonable plans they come up with.

The flashback ends with the modern PCs awakening. One of them has experienced the flashback as a dream. Its connection to ongoing events is not entirely clear, though there is obviously a thematic link. The city of Nathyrr is in the grip of a plague that resists clerical healing. The PCs are assisting in the evacuation or containment of the most heavily struck districts of the city, while trying to maintain order and cracking down on looting and criminals who would take advantage of the situation. In the confusion, General Eldrast, one of the church’s political allies and advisors, disappears from his quarters within the city. The PCs are ordered to investigate. Their investigation is interrupted by a sudden uprising among the region’s warforged—and indeed, so they hear, among the warforged in other nations as well. Only a small percentage of the warforged are revolting, but the violence, particularly against those already weakened by the plague, ignites a substantial amount of social unrest. Attacks on warforged increase, as do protests and demands for the entire race to be scrapped. Only after substantial effort, and not a few fights, can the PCs and other officials restore peace to the city. The PCs now have a choice—they can continue to investigate the missing general, or they can attempt to learn what sparked the sudden uprising, which is far too well timed to be coincidence. (They likely wind up investigating both, in which case you can run stories based on all the following, in whichever order is appropriate.) If the PCs can earn the trust of any in the warforged community, they learn that a few specific warforged were the ones agitating for the revolt, and that many others cooperated due to a string of recent crimes against warforged. They eventually learn that nobody has seen any of the agitators since the uprising, and that the crimes seem to have started at roughly the same time as the agitators first appeared—clearly a setup to stir racial tensions. If they research, however, they fi nd that this same tactic has been used before, in the early days of warforged participation in the Last War. The next, relatively brief, flashback takes place in the Cyran city of Kalazart. Cyre has just recently begun fielding large numbers of warforged, and the flashback PCs have been dispatched to gather information from within Cyre regarding the number and disposition of those forces. For the most part, this involves infiltrating Cyran military installations and making off with various plans and strategies. While they are present, however, the PCs do learn of dissension in the warforged ranks. Several warforged, led by one named Sever, are unhappy at their treatment by the humanoids they serve. Before the PCs leave the city, they are caught up in a small warforged uprising, inspired by Sever, who escapes before the Cyran forces can capture him. Investigation into General Eldrast’s disappearance reveals that he had recently taken on, as a paramour, a Cyran survivor by the name of Sorshe Lavond. Although the PCs cannot find her, they do learn that she is wanted in New Cyre for agitating against Breland and the other nations. If the PCs want any more information on her, they will have to travel there. (You could consider running some unrelated side trek adventures during the journey.) Before they leave, however, the PCs learn that several of the rich and powerful of other nations disappeared at roughly the same time as General Eldrast. Any PC who has ranks in Knowledge (history) vaguely recalls a similar incident during the war, when a number of wealthy and noble children vanished. If the PCs investigate this, they can find historical records, leading to another fl ashback adventure. In this flashback, Ilsendra Koll, a Karrnathi warlord, has sent operatives to kidnap many of the children of powerful families throughout the other nations. She intended to use these children as bargaining chips, to help obtain military victories by forcing other nations to capitulate. One of Koll’s generals was Balthas Greist, who took the opportunity to infect the children with a modifi ed version of his artifi cial plague. This one would remain dormant until the children were exposed to a special magical trigger. This way, when the children were either returned or rescued, he would have weapons hidden throughout the other nations. The fl ashback PCs do not know any of this, but they are among those tasked with locating and retrieving the children—a rare joint effort by all the other four nations. This mission involves a lightning raid into Karrnathi territory, using a combination of stealth and violence to penetrate Koll’s defenses and mount a rescue. The information gleaned in their research (and the prior fl ashback) leads the modern PCs to a disturbing discovery: Everyone who has recently disappeared was one of the children kidnapped by Ilsendra Koll! Pursuing their only remaining lead, the PCs eventually arrive in New Cyre, where they can attempt to track down Sorshe Lavond. In New Cyre, they are attacked not only by Lavond’s companions, but by several Mournland monstrosities that they have smuggled out of the gray mists and kept caged. The PCs learn that Lavond is part of an organization of Cyran survivors that still burn with hatred about the war, and wish to see all the nations destroyed. Through intimidation, stealth, or magic, the PCs can locate the group’s headquarters, hidden on the outskirts of New Cyre. There they fi nd writings that detail General Greist’s use of disease, and the fact that all the “rescued” children were infected. The material also indicates that the warforged Sever was able to trigger some of these plague-carriers against Greist’s intentions. Next, the fl ashback PCs fi nd themselves dispatched to investigate why an entire town in Thrane has fallen silent. Their discovery is horrific: The townsfolk have been wiped out by a virulent plague, very much like the one they faced years ago. Some of the townsfolk have not remained dead, and the PCs must prevent the spread not of plague, but of plague-spawned undead! Alas, they are never able to locate the source of the contagion, but an encounter with several hostile warforged certainly suggests Sever’s involvement. The modern PCs learn one other important piece of information: Sever’s base of operations, as chronicled by the Cyran terrorists who are working with him, is in the Mournland. Sever serves no lesser being than the Lord of Blades! Deep within the Mournland, the PCs have their final confrontation. (Whether Sever actually serves the Lord of Blades or is the Lord of Blades, using a prior identity, is entirely up to the needs of the campaign.) The militant warforged have managed to increase the virulence of the plague, so that it will spread infi nitely rather than restricting itself to one or two iterations. Using the plague-bearers who have been lured or kidnapped here, and the Cyran terrorists who remain unaware of the plague’s true potential, this scheme poses a sufficiently large threat to destroy Khorvairian society entirely. The PCs must either stop the threat here or, if some of the nobles have already begun to make their way back home, they must track down every one of them to prevent a deadly outbreak.