# Eberron 2: Whispers of the Vampire Blade

**NOTES**

Episode 4+: *Whispers of the Vampire Blade* Notes:

*You can only imagine the cogs as basically the molten core of the world's most thriving industrial magical city.*

*Every drop of rain or bath water that hits the depths as it traces its way down becomes a sizzling aromatic stream*

*that shrouds and shades the lower district in a dispersed cloud of mist.*

**Brandon** - Aerellin

**Frank -** Raspip

**Micaela -** Calliola

**Dre -** Naheo

**James** **-** Jake

**Mithral Tower, Sharn City of Towers (pg. 40)**

**Travel options in Sharn:** SkyFare (1sp per
person), "lifts" (elevator), bridges

Mahkah Anthu

Wealthy, residential
distict. (Upper Wards). Mithral Tower is Sharn's most desirable downtown
residential distict, comparable to the more suburban Oak Towres and Crystal
Bridge districts in Upper Northedge.

Includes the Tomollan
Estate of Javan Tomallan of House Lyrander, one of Sharn's wealthiest citizens.

Players are currently
in the adventurer's quarter ("Deathsgate") at a large house of
healing maintained by House Jorasco. The players are heading to Wroann's Gate
in the Caravan district of Lower Tavick's Landing (pg.98).

**Kurala's House of Healing:** Explorers tend to
need healing more than merchants and crafters, and Kurala d'Jorasco (halfling
adept) does a brisk business in Clifftop. In addition to possessing the Least
Mark of Healing (*lesser restoration*),
she is an adept of Boldrei and can perform magical healing for her clients,
including *remove curse* and *remove disease*. While she runs her own
business, Kurala is a respected member of House Jorasco and is often called in
to help the healers in Dragon Towers. Kurala's House includes three lesser
heade wth the Least Mark of Healing (*cure light
wounds*) and her husband Janasar, who specializes in the care and
treatment of animals.

Other notable
locations of the Lower Wards:

**Cold Flame Keep:** fortress-like temple to the
Silver Flame (pg. 82)

**Boldrei's Hearth:** Middle Ward tavern in the Inn
district (pg. 47); cultist gathering here

**Dragoneyes**: "entertainment" district
ran by doppelgangers and changlings (pg. 97)

**The King’s Forest:** A great tropical rain forest
fills the southeastern portion of Breland, from the Dagger River in the west to
the Trolan River (now part of Zilargo) in the east, from the Howling River in
the north to the continent’s southern coast. The King’s Forest is a hunting
preserve that once belonged to the Galifar king and now falls under the
protection of Breland’s crown. The Knight Rangers patrol the rain forest,
watching for poachers and trying to keep in check the bandits and brigands who
hide within its depths. Since the Treaty of Thronehold, the eastern portion of
the forest has been part of Zilargo; mindful of this, the Brelish rangers
rarely cross the border in pursuit of their duties. Therefore, it isn’t unusual
for bands of brigands to flee across the border as they try to evade the
rangers.

Once, the King’s
Forest covered the entire southern half of Breland, cut in half by the mighty
Dagger River. Logging and cultivation have reduced the forest’s size over the
centuries, and it became necessary for a royal decree to preserve the portion
of the forest that remains. All kinds of tropical plants, insects, and wildlife
fill the King’s Forest. Hunting, except by permit or royal invitation, is
strictly prohibited. In the fall season, the king and his court, as well as
honored guests, enter the King’s Forest to participate in a Great Hunt. Exotic
animals of all types are the subjects of the Great Hunt, and King Boranel loves
to let his hunting tigers run at the head of his party. Sometimes a dire or
horrid animal falls to the hunters (a stuffed horrid ape, killed by King
Boranel during the Great Hunt of 966, decorates a hall in Brokenblade Castle),
but more often they wind up with a variety of exotic but mundane birds,
lizards, and mammals. The Jungle Boys, a band of bloodthirsty brigands, hide
within the King’s Forest. The band is variously estimated to have anywhere from
a dozen men to as many as a hundred brigands and a mock court of beggars,
harlots, and other hangers-on. An outlaw known as Tree Viper leads the Jungle
Boys. The band periodically raids the thorps, villages, and plantations that
line the edge of the forest, and sometimes it ambushes caravans and travelers
as they move through the forest. The Knight Rangers have tangled with the
Jungle Boys on more than one occasion, but they haven’t been able to capture
their leader or put an end to their marauding.

**Lower Ward of Sharn:**

As your lift scales
down into the Lower Wards of Sharn, you can easily see the radiant towers and
skybridges of Mograve University hovering independently a short distance away.
Several flying mounts swoop past, presumably practicing for the aerial race and
jousting tournaments next month - a halfling on a pterosaur, a goblin on a dire
bat, and a human on a raven-winged griffon. Several other individuals maintain
the speedy descent from location to location atop soarsleds, glowing green
stones. You find yourselves at Menthis Plateau, the hub of Sharn's
entertainment industry, the well known diverse ethnic quarter and the seat of
Morgrave University. (pg 66) Its disticts include "Little Zilargo",
Everbright, the magic district and two theater districts, Torchfire and Smoky
Towers as well as many shops and residences.

**Vathinrond (Zilspar), on the way to Trolanport**

"No diamond
shone like the city of Trolanport. One has not gazed upon a wonder of the world
until he sees, with his own eyes, the airships as they buzz and hum about the
Tower of the Triumvirate like so many bees returning to the hive. I can still see
it now... as I did when I was a boy..." ~ random gnome

We ride onward. Near
evening we come to Vathinrond, a walled city. The guards are closing for the
night. They let us in and recommend the Scarlet Brigand, an inn that is open
late for travelers. A boy offers to stable our horses for the night.

A fellow who passed
through Thrane recently says a Knight of the Silver Flame has been in
Vathinrond. The knight is looking for someone who matches the description of
Grilsha. The knights often act as bounty hunters. He saw the knight earlier
today.

Near noon, a knight
catches up to us. He hails us and asks to speak on foot. He is wearing plate
mail and has a massive sword slung across his back. He asks if we're the party
from Sharn and if we've faced Grilsha and Lucan in combat. When we confirm that,
he announced that he is sworn to destroy anyone who has been in contact with
"the darkness".

Sir Edward of the
Silver Flame, Order of the Templar: plate mail, 2h sword + 1, two potions of
cure light wounds, and a trace of the Silver Flame's edicts. The sections about
the evils of the undead is circled. He also bears a letter from a higher up in the
clergy of Sharn. It instructs "Sir Edward of the Silver Flame" to
head to Sharn to track down the creature once known as Lucan. Addressed to
Edward in Delayer of Thrane.

“I am the hand of the
Silver Flame. Its purity infuses my soul, its righteous anger flows through my
body. Repent, sinner, or I must share it with you.”

**TROLANPORT**

Capital Port City;
Population 27,500

The Tower of the
Triumvirate rises over the center of Trolanport, the center of the gnome
shipbuilding trade and a major mercantile hub. Traders arrive here regularly
from Aerenal, Breland, Stormreach, and even more distant ports. It is said that
anything can be found in the Trolanport markets from Sarlonan tapestries to
Karrnathi blades and incense from distant Seren Island. Trolanport is also
horne to the great clemental binding guilds. All the dragon marked houses are
represented in the city, and House Lyrandar. House Cannith, and House Kundarak
have large enclaves that reflect their close ties to the gnomes.

At first glance.
Zilargo seems a paradise - a colorful land filled wilh magic, music and song,
featuring the most peaceful cities of any nation in Khoravaire. This is the
land of the gnomes and visitors are met with good cheer and warm hospitality.
However, Zilargo is also a land filled with conspiracy and intrigue, and its
people have little tolerance for violence or unrest. For characters who stay
out of trouble, Zilargo can be as pleasant and peaceful as it appears. Those
who disturb the peace run the risk of disappearing without a trace.

An enormous tower
sits in the center of the city, the Tower of the Triumvarates.

Other notable
locations: (Campaign Guide pg. 169)

- "Lucky Stone" tavern.
- The "Haunted Werewolf" tavern
- The Aundarian Embassy
- Dragonmarked Service Houses (every house is represented here)
- Library of Korranberg (makers of the *Korranberg Chronicle daily news*)
- Bookbinder's Quarter (scribe, printers, cartographers district) -> Paper Market
- The Street of a Hundred Temples

NPCs:

- Paddy Everdale, the half-elf artificer (female). Father owns "Paddy's Playpen" (gnome toy store)
- Dorg. it's just Dorg. the half-orc bounty hunter
- Glint Rockentur, the rock gnome engineer (forge cleric / artificer)
- **William Cooper**, the mysterious man of many talents (artificer / rogue / bard)... Supposedly a "gravekeeper" (Blood of Vol). He's been known to have his ways of getting rid of bodies.
- Inkrit Kollisun, gnome artificer (mechanic of airships), Father Derek Kollisun, provides services for House Lyrander

Changling Jas,
appears to be a thin elven woman. For a handful of coins she identifies an
Aundarian diplomat, Neya Ir'krell as well as an Aundarian embassy the next
night. She spots someone walk into the tavern that has an issue with her and
shapeshifts into a dwarf before sending them off.

Paddy's Playpen:
"The sound of clocks, gears, and other types of machinery drown out your
entrance. The floor is littered with wrapping paper, bows, and unwanted toys;
tiny, harmless dolls in the shape of gnomes walk purposefully back and forth,
sorting the presents into piles. As you advance, the shop door suddenly closes
behind you, locking with a complicated series of gears, bolts, and
levers."

Rober's Robes

A Night Under a
Thousand Stars

*Every wall of the ballroom has been festooned with
black and white crepe, and drifting darting magical lights provide the room's
illumination. A quartet of elf musicians plays in a far corner of the ballroom,
providing music for approximately a dozen dancers. About forty other people sit
at round tables or stand around the edge of the dance floor, conversing in
quiet tones while servants bring them drinks and small tidbits of food. The
ballroom's most striking feature is the costumes that everyone - host, gues and
servant alike - wears. Everyone also wears a mask, many decorated with
feathers, furs, sequins or custume jewelry. Many of the women have on long,
disaphanous gowns, while the men wear form-fitting breeches and vests that
glitter with golden thread and sparkle of tiny gems. It appears that about a
third of the guests are gnomes.*

NPCs:

- Neya ir'Krell, high-ranking diplomat and agent of the Royal Eyes of Aundair (friend of Lucan; agreed to provide Lucan what he needs to make his escape; if asked, denies knowing Lucan (unless following a dance))
    - Human, rogue 4; sneak attack +2d6; dagger, hand crossbow (10), *ring of protection* +2; 25sp, 15gp
- Meena ir'Erdalis, high-ranking diplomat, spellcaster and agent of the Royal Eyes of Aundair
- Taylor d'Orien: high-ranking diplomat, agent of the Royal Eyes of Aundair
- Lady Lysse Lyrriman d'Sivis: matriarch of House Sivis
- Lady Syla Surralan d'Sivis (Doyenne) : archaeologist of the Seawall Mountains; "Lady Syla Syrralan d'Sivis, Doyen of the Ninth College, Keeper of the Eightieth Word, Unbound Scroll, and Wordsmith"
- Corius Carralyn d'Sivis: lawyer of the Speakers Guild

**Development:**

15 minutes: Lucan
locates Neya. He greets her and leads her to the dance floor. Neya gives Lucan
the password he needs to board the airship, as well as a small pouch containing
traveling papers and a letter of credit. Meena arrives at the affair with her
agents. Meena is a legitimate guest; her agents are disguised as servants.

20 minutes: During
their dance, Neya noticed that Lucan's hands were cold and they didn't warm to
her touch. After the dance she disccreetly send for a spellcast to cast a
divination and find out what has happened to her longtime contact. Neya also
encourages Lucan to engage other guests in conversation (so he doesn't leave
before she determines what's going on).

25 minutes: Meena
finds Lucan and asks him to dance. He accepts.

30 minutes: Meena
tries to use a *charm person* spell on
Lucan in the middle of the dance floor. It fails automatically, because undead
are immune to mind-affecting spells. Meena recoils, suspecting that Lucan isn't
what he appears to be. Lucan calls for the *soul
blade* from his *glove of storing*.
Combat begins as the guests and servants panic, scream and attempt to flee.

**Roll initiatve**

Environment: Guards
(crossbow) (attack everyone who is obviously fighting), Crowds (DC 15 STR or
DEX)

Meena (casts spells):
*mage armor, cat's grace, charm person, magic
missle, fireball, suggestion, wand of hold person*

2 Aundarian agents
(18HP): (VNPCs *Ninja) -* one attempts to
grapple Lucan and is feasted on

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Xanantoxil,
the "Soul Blade"**

+1 Keen Longsword

NE, Int 17, Wis 15, Cha 12 (Ego 13) Telepathy and
Speech, 120’ Darkvision and Hearing

Holds 10 Charges, Regenerates 1d8+2 Charges at Dusk

Faerie Fire (Std. Action; 60’; V,S; 1 Charge; Targets
Dex @ Prof.+2 )

Cure Wounds (1d8+2) (Std. Action; Touch; V,S; 1
Charge/1d8, max 4d8, no save)

Hex (Bonus Action; 90’; V,S; 1 Charge; no save)

Confusion (Std. Action, Blade only; 10’ sphere @ 90’;
V; 2 Charges, plus 5’ radius per Charge; Targets Wis @ Prof.+2)

The intelligence inside the Soul Blade is able to
expend charges and use spells, as well as maintain concentration. If the
wielder and Soul Blade are at odds, the Blade is likely to cast Faerie Fire or
Hex on the wielder or his allies. Dropping the Blade to the ground will disrupt
the Blade’s concentration, stopping either spell’s effects.

At zero charges, the sword has a 1-in-20 chance of
going dormant for a month, losing all magical abilities. It will attempt to do
this as often as possible to withdraw its aid from a wielder it does not agree
with.