# Eberron 7: "Refuge in the Mournland"

### **METROL**

---

Music: Eberron: The Mournlands - WoW Duskwood

[**MAKING**](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/MAKING%204769b555f10a466ba54a4a1a0f1433c9.md)

[Metrol: Maps and Images](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Metrol%20Maps%20and%20Images%20f19ba3a650d64d03816e9f4f94c80a5c.csv)

**Metrol**: Stormantle Bay, River Melandor

**The Wynarn Institute of Art.**

The Wynarn institute was both one of the foremost academies of magic in Khorvaire and one of its most amazing museums. In addition to purely artistic exhibits, the Hall of Kings allowed rulers to converse with illusory replicas of the past rulers of Galifar. Treasures of the pre-Galifar kingdoms were displayed here, along with modern works of art.

**NPCs:**

- **Jode d’Ghallanda**, a dragonmarked halfling, believes himself to have been caught up in the wake of the Mourning. A privileged hospitality specialist who oversaw residence life at the institute. He was not “blessed” with the Mark of Healing and has neither an abundance of medical equipment nor skill, but he is a caretaker.
    - Equipment: crossbow + bolts, very minimal rations on hand; a well-kept healer’s kit.
- Patients (Cyran refugees):
    - Synthia, a human child (age 4) with recurring sights of a mind flayer.
        - A precious child, born to a student resident years prior to the Mourning. Her mother left her under the guardianship of another student. Her life tragically ended due to a parasytic infestation that plagued the Mournland post-war. She, among others, was relocated to a quarantined gassing chamber (*stinkcloud*).
        - Her jaw has been petrified and she is incapable of speech.
    - Kim Remington, a citizen who regarded it his civic duty to battle on behalf of Cyre.
        - Unconscious, wrapped in bandages, and in need of constant attention.
        - A father, concerned for his daughter’s safety, took the first skycoach available to the Institute, which was on lockdown. His perseverance was admirable, waiting patiently and desperately outside until the wards finally dropped.
        - His right arm has been transformed alchemically into wax.

(1) Courtyard - central location of the institute; dancing lights dart the perimeter, illuminating the withered natural landscaping of the gardens; a student’s ghost hovers near a fountain, her steps causing small wakes in the water.

*Treasure:* A girl’s diary, soaked and illegible; a brass key to a girl’s dormitory room hangs between the pages.

(2) Broken Bridges - what once united the institute with the other Vermishard spires have long since collapsed due to warfare and siege armaments; these entrances are warded (Medani) and even now actively defended by summoned golems, created by skilled Cannith artificers as a level of security ensuring the safety of the students

(3) Hall of Kings - illusory replicas which speak voices of great rulers of Galifar

---

### **THE VEMISHARDS - THE FALLEN SPIRES**

Seven spires rise up from Metrol, a natural (or supernatural) wonder. These plateaus held the ancestral homes of the noble lines of Old Metrol, and the Royal Vemishard was the seat of the Cyran crown. However, over the course of centuries other powerful forces—such as House Cannith and House Phiarlan—made their way to the Vermishards. Cannith and Phiarlan worked together with Cyran magewrights to embed illusory lighting into the Vermishards, and these glittering spires were a remarkable part of the Metrol skyline.

Royal Vermishard, holding the grand palace of the Wynarn line, still stands brilliant in the distance. Within, it is believed to be decorated entirely with gleaming illusions by the finest artists of the land. The Wynarn Institute of Art holds spectacular works from throughout the ages, including illusory replicas which speak voices of great rulers of Galifar. Seven natural spires rise up in the center of the sprawling city, each topped with the ancestral homes of the old lines of the city.

- **The Vermishards**. Seven spires rise up from Metrol, a natural (or supernatural) wonder. These plateaus held the ancestral homes of the noble lines of Old Metrol, and the Royal Vermishard was the seat of the Cyran crown. However, over the course of centuries other powerful forces—such as House Cannith and House Phiarlan—made their way to the Vermishards. Cannith and Phiarlan worked together with Cyran magewrights to embed illusory lighting into the Vermishards, and these glittering spires were a remarkable part of the Metrol skyline.
- **The Vault.** The Royal Treasury of Galifar was commonly known as the Vault. While there were reserves hidden around the kingdom, the Vault included both the mint, the primary reserves of both currencies and precious metals, and cultural artifacts deemed too valuable to be displayed. Salvagers have dreamed of finding the “Golden Palace,” but there are stories saying that the Vault is actually *missing*. The Mourning had strange effects on Metrol, and the Vault may have simply been physically displaced, or it could have fallen into another plane.
- **The Cathedral of the Sovereign Host.** Following the spread of the Church of the Silver Flame in Thrane, the Cathedral of the Sovereign Host became the primary seat of vassal devotion on Galifar. Many of the rulers of Galifar would make an addition to the Cathedral as a way of showing their piety. By the reign of King Jarot, it was a wonder. Nine colossal statues encircle the temple. Illusory displays within depicted scenes from the faith, and there was a vast collection of relics and artifacts. The fate of the cathedral and its treasures remains unknown.

All around is a wall of sickly fog, tumbling through the alley’s canyon of crumbling, gray brick walls like some jaundiced flash flood. Ahead, the unfamiliar alley splits, curving to the left and right. Behind, from the silent swell of mist, emanates the sound of footsteps—slow, but somehow keeping pace with the careening, hungry wave... The alley walls sag, battered brick slumping over the path, nearly blotting out the bruised twilight sky. Again the grimy cobblestone path splits. This time one route curves uphill, while the other recklessly descends. Behind the mist, the relentless sound of pursuit grow closer. The mist parts, now mere steps behind. A figure emerges.

- Encounter: Proto-Shoggoth (CoC 372) - CR 9
    - Description

        *The humanoid’s skin splits apart with a nauseating sound of tearing flesh as a monstrous pink cluster of pseudopods emerge from within. A mass of reeking protoplasm boils forth from the deflated human skin, which simply limps to the ground.*

### Stillwater Station

**Caggle**, a retired Darguun goblin scavenger, resident of the Southwestern end of Metrol

*The rusting lightning rail cars have long since settled into the hard ground, and the original wooden platform and overhead shelter are riddled with holes and rotting through. Rail cars appear to have been converted into cramped but serviceable shelters. Structures appear to have been manufactured out of scrap wood and metal. The soil is hard-packed (sand), petrified driftwood can be scavenged from nearby.*

*A narrow gulch stretches about a mile east of the station, instilled into the soil, a memorial gulch; the sole living resident, Caggle, a retired Darguun scavenger, the official gravekeeper of Stillwater Station; a hollowed out, small, squalid den. He spends his days in one-sided conversations with the neighbors.*

### **Sivis Relay Station**

***Speaking Stones.*** The House Sivis relay station is covered with a wispy, thick fog; there are large statues sitting at the edges, from which you hear some voices. "Mom... are you home yet?" A couple seconds later, a motherly voice, "Chalina... mommy will be home soon." ... The sounds of gnomish coworkers who seemed to be coming home from lunch, "Well... did you see the *swashball* game the other day?... What is that?!"

Quieter, more distant transmissions from further away. You hear the ping from the interior, a broken, mostly dismantled iron door hangs ajar oddly suspended off its hinges, rattling against the wind.

As you approach, you see a degraded garden, an outdoor gnomish terrace on the roof of the building. Toward the sound of the echoing ping, as you come around the corner, where the steps are, you see blood that appears to be coming down from the roof where the door is; a small trail, like a river drops down. The blood is sticky and coagulated, neither dry nor wet, almost gelatinous. Wedged in the small opening, behind the door, the body of a human* wearing a coat with an insignia of House Cannith, like a patch adorning his clothing.

Peering inside, the main hall forks into two branches leading to stairways which both descend. Heading down the corridor, curving around the next flight, moving down, the landing opens up into a large room with stacks of scrolls and parchments, organized in small compartments with a plaque underneath each one; on the center table lie an array of open books and tomes. An overturned desk lies to the side, papers scattered about randomly. A grand cloth map affixed to the wall behind the desks shows the entirety of the city of Metrol. [all texts are written in Gnomish]

Artificer description: bruised, minor head injuries, skull fractured; satchel: Wand of the War Mage *(+1)*, personal effects

Recorded message: "*Last Horizon* to Central Control, this is **Kimil** **Finewind d'Lyrandar** speaking. We've seem to run into some difficulties with our airship... We have, however, arrived at the city of Metrol and if all goes well, we should be off-boarding here shortly.”

Treasure: Pen of the Scribe, Sending Stone, Figurine of Wondrous Power (Silver Raven)

For those who contact others, they will hear "Sivis Messaging Station. May I get the name of whom is calling and the name of the recipient?" They can, of course, set up secure lines (wiring up pairing *sending stones*). However, in some cases (when the recipient does not answer their line) they will save and forward messages (though that's less fun). As a thrall, Corrine's father will "be surprised" to find his daughter in the Mournlands, prompting her on whether she needs a ride, etc. "In the Mournlands, you say? Dreadful place. 

"Hello Fairhaven, this is ... Princess of the Royal Throne of Aundair. It has come to my attention there is an imposter circumventing the throne in the wake of my mother's death. I am now with an adventuring party in the middle of the Mournlands in Metrol. Father, I will be home soon, though I'm sure you are looking into the matter with the court wizards on your own."

### **THE ABANDONED AIRSHIP - The *Last Horizon***

[https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/gos/salvage-operation](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/gos/salvage-operation)

The *Last Horizon* was a privateer vessel once used for smuggling goods in and coveted relics out of the Mournlands, or more aptly the previous empire of Cyre. The vessel's activity stopped at the end of the war. Located on the Western bank of Lake Cyre.

An airship, twisted, like a graveyard, splintered soarwood, gnarled metal. Corpses litter the ship, dead, but not decomposing. Several of the bodies seem huddled together, whereas those showing obvious fall damage are scattered randomly. The Last Horizon's upper decks slope gently down toward the ship’s port side. The forecastle and quarterdeck are empty, and short wooden stumps are all that remain of the ship’s masts. The double doors leading to cabins fore and behind appear intact, as does the metal grate in the deck that offers access to the lower decks. Aside from the rhythmic creak of the ship’s badly weathered timbers, all seems quiet.

1. ***The Main Deck.*** This area is unoccupied. The doors to fore and aft are not locked, and the ship’s wheel turns easily and freely. A character who makes a successful DC 10 Intelligence check determines that the wheel is no longer connected to the ship’s rudder, and it can’t be used to steer the ship until the vessel undergoes extensive repairs.

The deck is marred in places by bloodstains, noticeable to someone who makes a successful DC 15 Perception check. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check thereafter reveals that the stains are about three days old.

Through the grate set into the deck can be seen a ladder extending down to area 5, but the grate is rusted shut. It can be wrenched open with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check or smashed apart (AC 15; 10 hit points; immunity to fire, poison, and psychic damage). Anyone who peers down into area 5 after the grate is removed and succeeds on a DC 10 Perception check spots several fist-sized spiders crawling along the walls of the passage below. The spiders immediately scuttle away from any noise or light.

Airlocks A and B (on opposite sides of the stern) still have power and can be opened normally. Cycling through the airlock takes three rounds.

1. **Navigator’s Room.** The door into this room from the main deck is held shut by a thick mass of webbing behind it. It can be forced open with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check or broken through (AC 15, 18 hit points, immunity to poison and psychic damage, resistance to piercing and slashing damage).
2. **Webbed Doorway.** This area is not shrouded in sheets of webs, unlike most of the lower deck. A web of a different sort stretches across the doorway between this small chamber and the west end of area 5 (at the point marked with a dotted line). This freshly spun web is difficult to spot. A character who probes ahead with a pole or a weapon, or who has a passive Perception score of 17 or higher, can spot the web. Otherwise, the first character through the doorway blunders into it and is restrained, as if they had been hit by a giant spider’s Web attack.

*Pendulum Mechanical trap* Challenge: 8 (3,900 XP) When triggered, a large support beam of the ship swings down on a thick cord of webbing, passing through a 30-foot line to the trigger location. A successful **DC 15 Wisdom (Perception)** check notices a strand of webbing so fine as to be nearly invisible that serves as the trigger. A successful DC **15 Intelligence (Investigation)** check deduces that a patch of ceiling or wall nearby is a silk image hiding a boulder strung up by ultra-strong webbing. Unless a character succeeds at a **DC 18 Dexterity check** with thieves’ tools or weaver’s tools, disturbing the webbing triggers the trap. The swinging boulder makes a melee attack with a +8 bonus against each target in its path. On a hit, the target takes 45 (10d8) bludgeoning damage and must succeed on a **DC 15 Dexterity saving throw** or be knocked prone. If the creature was on a ledge no wider than its space, it falls off the ledge if it failed its saving throw by 5 or more.

**Encounter:** *Chelicerae* (ToB 54) completely hidden in webbing and shadow. They attack the first creature to examine the charts and maps, gaining surprise (casting *Hold Person*) unless the creature has a passive Perception score of 17 or higher.

Sheets of webbing fill this room, such that anything more than 10 feet from the entrance appears as little more than a vague shape. Hidden in the webs are a narrow staircase down and, near the bow, a table and four chairs. The weathered furniture here is worthless, but the table is still covered with charts and maps.

1. **The Engine Room.** The faint emergency lighting outlines three gigantic machines towering in the dark, surrounded by a jumble of ramps and ladders. The pulsating machines, the intense heat, and the labyrinthine network of girders and walkways give the halls a nightmarish atmosphere.
2. **The Service Central.** Aged control panels, black screens and piles of worn-down equipment fill a room smelling faintly of ozone and burned circuitry. The service central is a jungle of bulky control boards, strange machines and exoskeletons reminiscent of warforged prototypes. A small mess and four small cabins (two of them empty and unused) can be accessed through a door in the back. Steel plate floors, thick airlock doors and flashing red lights. The airlock is still functioning and the door slides open with a hiss and a clank. There is something – or someone – lying on the floor inside the door.

**Characters**: The body of engineer Kakinwene Rabolbour (*race: Khalashtar)*.

**Items**: A tabula in one of the dead engineer's pockets. The tabula contains a log. Examining the body reveals that the cause of death appears to be a small puncture wound through the chest. A successful Medicine check (DC 12) reveals that the wound was caused by a poisonous blade (*Mercurium Shortsword*). He wears a lab coat and a *cloak of protection*.

- **KAKINWENE'S LOG**

    ```
    66111-1600
    FINALLY ON OUR WAY FROM SHAE THORIDOR. I HAVE NEVER LIKED THAT RUSTY EXCUSE FOR A STATION. 
    LOADING TOOK LONGER THAN EXPECTED, BUT WE ARE NOW HEADING FOR MAKING. MAY THE SOVEREIGNS BLESS OUR JOURNEY.

    66112-2200
    THE CAPTAIN AND REYNA PREPARED A PROPER FEAST IN THE MESS TODAY TO CELEBRATE THE TRIP HOME. 
    OR RATHER, MIRRA SLAVED IN THE KITCHEN AND THE CAPTAIN AND REYNA SAT AROUND TELLING THE SAME OLD ANECDOTES 
    ABOUT THE  GOOD OLD DAYS AS THEY ALWAYS DO. BUT IT WAS ALL RIGHT; DABARAN WINE, FLAMING HOT ADANA AND FRESH 
    GREENS CAN MAKE YOU STOMACH JUST ABOUT ANYTHING.

    66113-2300
    SOMETHING STRANGE HAPPENED TODAY. KOLB CAME BACK FROM A CARGO INSPECTION WITH A STRANGE LOOK ON HIS FACE. 
    HE TRIED TO WAVE IT OFF BUT WE  SAW THAT SOMETHING HAD HIM SHAKING IN HIS BOOTS. I ASKED HIM IF HE HAD FOUND 
    SOMETHING ODD BUT ALL HE SAID WAS, “THE CAPTAIN HAS IT UNDER CONTROL”, AND THAT WAS IT.

    66113-0230
    WOKE UP TO SCREAMING ALARMS. ATALLAH WAS ALREADY IN THE SERVICE CENTRAL LOOKING ANXIOUSLY AT THE CARGO MONITORS. 
    HE MUTTERED SOMETHING ABOUT HOW THE CAPTAIN SHOULDN'T BE PLAYING WITH THINGS HE CAN'T HANDLE

    66114-1630
    I DON'T KNOW WHAT IS GOING ON ANYMORE. ATALLAH HAS LOCKED HIMSELF IN THE ENGINE ROOM. THE CAPTAIN IS UNRECOGNIZABLE. 
    I HEARD KOLB OVER THE COMS SAYING THAT KIRIN AND REYNA ARE DEAD. I FEEL THE SHIP CHANGING COURSE. THE EMERGENCY 
    LIGHTING JUST SWITCHED ON. SOMETHING TERRIBLE HAS HAPPENED. WE ARE LOST. MAY THE SOVEREIGNS HAVE MERCY.
    ```

1. **Cargo Bay** A large, cylindrical room with high ceilings (roughly ten meters). The front wall has one big, arched window showing only darkness. The room was originally designed as a place where the crew could go to relax and meditate. The only furniture here is a couple of low benches by the big window.

There are also three smaller, less adorned, *stasis pods* here, all opened – their former occupants, the palace guards (Aerenal elves), have awoken and are now moving about the ship. All four pods have small semi-translucent packaging material (moldable semi-synthetic organic compounds, similar to the composition of warforged) strapped to their sides. These are smuggled goods, devices used to preserve the dead as a means for preparing those for the Undying Court. The magic is like that of *sequester* (7th level transmutation). More interestingly, this technology can sustain a living individual through slowing their metabolic rate for thousands of years in a cryogenically petrified state.

**Encounter:** The Cargo Bay is protected by two drones.

***Treasure.*** Stored in a wooden box along the port wall. The box contains *[spell scrolls](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/spell-scroll)* of *[gust of wind](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/gust-of-wind)* and *[protection from poison](https://www.dndbeyond.com/spells/protection-from-poison)*, a *[potion of heroism](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/potion-of-heroism)*, a *[potion of water breathing](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/potion-of-water-breathing)*, a *[cloak of protection](https://www.dndbeyond.com/magic-items/cloak-of-protection)*, 507 gp, and 199 sp.

**SILVER LIGHT'S STEAD**

Steeples of white alabaster stone surmount a gothic dome. Gargoyles gaze below as you approach the double door entrance. A soft irradiance of silver light illuminates from within, painting a platinum walkway. As you enter, divine light washes out from you and coalesces in a soft radiance in a 30-foot radius around you (Holy Aura). The ever-flame torches in this chamber still agleam; the chandeliers above glow even more magnificently, shining on artistically rendered scenes of presumably historical and religious significance. Extraordinary, iconoclastic images of serpentine-like dragons with multi-colored feathered wings surrounded by silver fire. The interior seems pristine, untouched by the taint of mourning.

Near the entrance, a wall plaque is inscribed with the words "Keep the Darkness at Bay" and mounted photographs hang, each enshrined within an engraved darkwood frame listing the names of missionaries past and present.

Deeper inside, the floor becomes smothered in blood, and in the carnage, a bloodied parchment with a message written,
"Breathe into me oh Divine gale of wind. Cover me in ash, for I am dust, the soot of machine, the grime of rust. Melt me in your radiant cascade that in you I may fade. Bind me to your cindering flame, where my soul shall speak but one name and in truth be forever scarred. Sykharn.”

A child lies in the pool of blood, facing the back-left corner, dressed in a blood-drenched black robe. Its entire body is jerking violently, unnaturally, as though the wracking sobs are too powerful for its young frame. Its face is obscured by its hands and the hair falling over its face. The child ceases all sound and movement, holding still like a statue. A heartbeat later it shrieks as it turns toward you, an inhuman face lurking beneath completely human hair, and elongated claws emerge from the nails of its fingertips. In an instant, the creature scurries away into the shadows of the chamber.

The windows are shuttered against the outside light, and the room is shrouded in shadow. The tall, slender stranger wrapped in a cloak approaches, its deep cowl pulled down over her features. "You have seen the evil lurking in this place." Her voice is as a sibilant whisper, low but clear. "Its power increases with every soul it corrupts. Do you know that which I speak?"

The figure steps forward and throwing back her cloak. Beneath the shadow-weave, she wore a robe that seemed to be formed from pure white fire. This flared up to fill the room with light and illuminate a serpent's head covered with a rainbow of brilliant plumage. The feathers rise up around her, seeming to glow with inner fire.

"I am Dalassakash'alyntar, servant of the flame that binds, the light that will not die. Kazalak escaped his bonds but as long as the flame flows within me, he shall fall at my hand."

- **Dalasskash'alyntar** is a servant or bloodsworn shulassakar priestess who resides in Silver Light's Stead. Out of pity, she watches over four young children who were mutated into beings known as *wretchlings* by her corrupted kin, the yuan-ti. She feels pity for their situation, and evades the wrath of her former commander Sesstaria to protect these children from being destroyed as monsters. "The Shadow in the Flame" known as the "Sykharn" in Sarlona, worshipped by the yuan-ti (see Shrine of the Serpent, Faiths of Eberron). The bloodied writing was a death threat from worshippers of Syhkarn.
    - Solesia, a *wretchling*, a humanoid tainted by the Mourning; born with a unnatural ability to channel divine energy, the child claimed to hear the voices of spirits; now, she is entirely unable to utter comprehensible speech
    - Knows of the history of Syrkarn, the birth of the yuanti and their history of persecution by the dragons of Argonnessen and the Inspired.
- Driven from Sarlona by the Inspired, the yuan-ti lurk in the shadows of Xen'drik and the shores of Argonnessen, plotting vengeance against the Lords of Riedra and searching for ways to use the Draconic Prophecy to gain power.

Priest’s Study. *Though now covered in dust and gloom, this room appears to have once been a very comfortable study. In the center of the room is a beautiful, dark wood desk and matching chair with velvet cushions. Against one wall is a marble fireplace with the symbol of the Silver Arrow carved above the mantle. Along the others, long rows of bookshelves hold beautiful, religious tomes bound in silver.*

- **Treasure:** The books on the shelves are filled with beautifully illuminated pages that tell heroic tales of the Priests of Pyre fighting against aberrations in the caverns of Khyber. Archived scrolls, withered and falling part, though the images are legible, detail the origin of the Shallusakar race and a brief history of Sarlona before the Mage Wars.

***The Second Coming***

On the player’s second return to the Chapel, they find the following differences:

- An airship of Thranish origin hovering just above the chapel’s steeple.
- The child (Solesia) is missing, hidden by Dallassa via an Antimagic Field (Concentration) - Dallassa’s interrogation will have just begun by the time of the characters’ arrival. She will begin making Concentration checks at this time.

*TODO: Perhaps D. Is hanging from a wall, or chained and grappled by a Cuoatl (CR 4, Summon Celestial Creature). She remains silent during the interrogation. Krozen complies to her refusal to speak by casting Silence, ensuring her ensuring screams are muffled. His intent is to find Darwin Albatross and Fangli Towger, an intent of vengeance, to redeem his death.*

Lore regarding High Cardinal Krozen since his defeat in Flamekeep (whom does he serve now? How was he resurrected?)...

**CANNITH CONSTRUCT DISPATCH STATION (H-11)**

*The only identifier on the building is a well-worn sign above the entrance, on which “H-11” is written. There are some additional words, but they are completely illegible and all but worn away.*

*(1) Alchemist Apprentice Benches*.

The air is thick with the smell of blood and an overpowering scent of decay. Several Sanctionaries (ghostly facades of robed artificers) move about the room, animating various liquid-filled vials and speaking in hushed tones. Upon your entrance, they disappear, one dropping a glass vial which shatters upon impact spilling an acidic substance onto the floor.

*(2) Common Reagent Storage.*

*(3) Toxic Waste Treatment. This ceramic-lined room has various pipes running down its edges, tracing their way into the next room.*

*(4) Toxic Waste Disposal. A putrid smell permeates from ground-level hatch centered in the room (which opens up to a mostly-filled, no longer flowing sewage line).*

*(5) Uncommon Reagent Storage.*

*(6) Entrance Lobby.*

*(7) Public Shop.*

*(8) Savant's Workshop*.

In addition to the double doors through which the you enter, there is another door and a large loading ramp set in the opposite wall. There are a number of crates and small shipping containers arranged in stacks about the room. Most of these are aged, as shown by the rotten wood and rusted-through metal. (INV 12) A few are more recent, and inspection reveals that these have been forced open and ransacked. A small portion of this room is separated into an office, the armour glass partition so streaked with grime and corrosion as to be opaque. Small pieces of clockwork machinery and a tinker’s toolset can be acquired from this room with little time spent.

*(9) Rare Reagent Storage*.** (expands vertically to include a docking section)

There is a heavy reek of decay in the air, and numerous large, hairy flies buzzing around the room.

*(10) Study. An intricately weaved rug obscures much of the stone tiling in this room. Bookshelves surround the room, having an almost modern design, each shelf cascading to the other like a stairway. Rather than books, in the shelves rest glass containers and canisters. An alley, 10 feet wide, runs between adjacent canisters. Each canister is 10 feet in diameter and stands 10 feet (3 m) tall. The base and cap are made from metal with lights and a display on each one. Thick cables run from the base and into the floor. Fluid and a solid mass fill each canister. When characters enter the room, their motion causes green light to shine up from the bottom of each canister, illuminating its contents. The light from the containers is sufficient to fill the room with dim light. In each container, small specs of biological matter float, suspended in a thick, clear gel-like substance. In the center of room is a single desk, dimly lit by a glass-enclosed, everflame candle resting on several surprisingly in-tact documents. A soft humming can be heard originating from the center of the tiled ceiling.*

Sketches of Mi-Go. One scientist provides the following description in an excerpt:

*“The creatures were a sort of huge, light-red crab with many pairs of legs and with two great batlike wings in the middle of the back. They sometimes walked on all their legs, and sometimes on the hindmost pair only, using the others to convey large objects of indeterminate nature. On one occasion they were spied in considerable numbers, a detachment of them wading along a shallow woodland watercourse three abreast in evidently disciplined formation. Once a specimen was seen flying—launching itself from the top of a bald, lonely hill at night and vanishing in the sky after its great flapping wings had been silhouetted an instant against the full moon.”*

- **Journal Entry**

    12 Olarune 994 YK
    On an improvised dissecting table in the old farmhouse, by the light of a powerful acetylene lamp the specimen was not very spectral looking. It had been a sturdy and apparently unimaginative youth of wholesome plebian type - large-framed, grey-eyed and amphibious features - a sound animal without psychological subtleties, and probably having vital processes of the simplest and healthiest sort. Now, with the eyes closed, it looked more asleep than dead; though the expert test of my friend soon left no doubt on that score. We had at last what Arkenen had always longed for - a real dead specimen of the ideal kind, ready for the solution as prepared according to the most careful calculations and theories for human use. We knew that there was scarcely a chance for anything like complete success, and could not avoid hideous fears at possible grotesque results of partial animation. I, myself, especially apprehensive concerning the mind and impulses of the creature, since in the space following death some of the more delicate cerebral cells might well have suffered deterioration… Into the still veins we injected the elixir which he thought would to some extent restore life’s chemical and physical processes. It had ended horribly - in a delirium of fear which we gradually came to attribute to our own overwrought nerves - and Charoth had never afterward been able to shake off a maddening sensation of being haunted and hunted. *“My dreams haunt me now more than death…”*

*EV - interest in Dragon’s Eye, plot hook for Argonessan?*

---

**Encounters:**

- 12 Mourners (CR2 - Santor's *The Mournland*, p52)
- 2 *Adamant Soul Warforged* (CR6 - *Fiercest of the Forge*)
- Clockwork Myrmidon (*TOB* 64)
- *Living Cloudkill + undead*
- 6 *Tyranid Genestealer* (CR? - ref?)
    - Relentless hunter-killer infantry, they will hunt their prey across the galaxy for decades if need be. Adapted to harsh terrain, their legs have been removed from the knees down, replaced by cybernetic augmentations.
    - features: *hive mind* (swarming)
    - parasitic reproductive cycle, genetically-engineered bioforms governed by a collective consciousness knowns as the *Hive Mind*. Psychic abilities. Often called "clawed changelings".
    - intelligent species which infiltrates other worlds (*genetic damnation*)
- 3 Warforged Titans (CR 8 )
- 1 Warforged Colossus (1/2 health, CR 25)

**Ikar's Salvage,** a salvaging operation initially out of Karrnath group of mercenaries and laborers who scour the Mournland's for lost equipment; Ikar's Salvage is very small in number: Ikar only employs about a dozen or so employees, mostly warforged, though he has been seen with minotaurs, eladrin, hobgoblins, and tieflings. He also makes use of Karrnathi undead in his salvage operations. Ikar has hand-picked each member of his operation, and they rank amongst the finest soldiers, scouts, artificers, and laborers. His team is highly skilled, and use high-quality tools and vehicles, including elemental-powered barges and land carts. He then ferries his purloined goods back into Karrnath, where he sells them through his various connections, including the Karrnathi government. Led by Ikar the Black (half-orc), a once decorated Karrnathi officer.

**The Bronze Hawk**, mercenary scavengers, led by Zira "the Hawk"

**Treasure:**

- Cyrite Steel - dark colored, steel (armor grants +1 to saving throws against spells/magical effects)
- *Flametongue* - 40ft radius bright light, 40ft dim; +2d6 fire damage
- Among bodies: 1d10 * 10 + 3d6 gold + 1d10 silver

**Character Concepts:**

- **Valeriya ir'Rurik**, last scion of the noble House of Rurik
- **Weston "Scabs" Yeardley**, a once respected Cyran weaponsmith, gravely wounded and terribly disfigured during the war; guards an inexhaustible forge (*everburning coals*) - produces basic maintenance equipment and repairs suffered warforged

Lucan possessions:

- *Amulet of Proof against Detection and Location*

**TODO: Shadowrun styled dungeon mechanics**

[Scenario 1: Technical Difficulties](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Scenario%201%20Technical%20Difficulties%2045bdbca670db4e649e231e3c70f8c239.md)

[Scenario 2: Escape the Nautiloid](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Scenario%202%20Escape%20the%20Nautiloid%20627b254d2baa4692ada8853d52fd279e.md)

[Scenario 3: The Vaults of Galifar](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Scenario%203%20The%20Vaults%20of%20Galifar%209b1a034587444ed9859ce7ea503585ab.md)

[Scenario 3b: First to Fall](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Scenario%203b%20First%20to%20Fall%2004c3d75659e84ac9993f3e39d0458b1f.md)

[Scenario 4: Genesys Station](Eberron%207%20Refuge%20in%20the%20Mournland%20e8ee0e39169e4d04a1edee761deb1e3f/Scenario%204%20Genesys%20Station%200665ed2bffec4e9dbac3a6b06055a54d.md)

### Part 2: Return to Civilization