# Eberron 3: "Calderus Demands the Soul Blade"

**NPCs:**

**Erben 'le Solitaire**, Human Paladin of *Dol Dorn* (Sovereign of Strength and Steel)

**Roewyn Atlast**, Gnome Divination Wizard, Dragon Prophet?

**Krogg Stonevigor**, Goliath Barbarian

**Gorvenal Crewe**, half-elf Deadgrim

***RECAP***

*Previously in Eberron, you met an interesting pair of supposed adventures. The human was tall and broad
shouldered. He wore a tabard bearing the symbol of the Sovereign Host over a
finely crafted chain mail shirt. At his side hung a longsword and on his back
was a blood red shield, suggesting that he was a devotee of Dol Dorn. The gnome was an elderly gentlemen
with a white beard and an alert expression. He wears a studded leather
jacket as armour and has a dagger tucked into his belt. He does most of the
talking for the pair, introduction himself as Roewyn and his friend as Erben.
Roewyn informs you that he and Erben would be traveling with you. He states
this as if it were the simplest, most straight forward thing in the world even
though, apparent to you, he has no idea of who you are or where you're going.
Roewyn was full of questions, most of which my companions and I were a little
reluctant to answer at that point. These included the obvious, such as our
names, and the more unusual, if we had Dragonmarks. You boarded a skycoach heading toward Flamekeep in your ongoing pursuit of Lucan Stellos, a rogue agent of the Dark Lanterns wielding a powerful, stolen artifact, the Soul Blade. Nighttime on the ship. Elazra sneaked into Roewyn's sleeping quarters, discovering both Roewyn and Erben to be fast asleep. Finding some papers on a makeshift desk in the room, Elazra learned some minor, interesting details on Roewyn, quickly flipping through notes and drawings of dragonmarks and puzzled ramblings on visions of the undead, question marks around the word "Korth". Suddenly, a band of agents attacked the captain attempting to take control of the airship. During the encounter, you met Corrine, her magestic gryphon, and her brother Jurian. About to be taken as hostage, one of the attackers revealed herself to Syndra as Rosebrix (or "Brix"), evidently an old acquaintance. After acquiring the information they needed, the agents took their leave. In the morning, awakened to the scent of burning soarwood and the clattering of a busted engine below, you discovered the crash site of two skycoaches just outside the town of Vathirond. Also, Gazpuco died.*

*Previously in Eberron, as Fangli, Elazra, Remy and Krogg investigated the crash site of the skycoaches, your skycoach began to head on to the next city, leaving you behind. After failing to catch up and being unsure how far it was to the next town, you called the House Sivis messaging station at Trolanport, informing them of the direness of the situation that you had actually been a part of the crash yourselves. During a montage of attempting to restore one of the destroyed skycoaches, the Trust showed up accompanied by paramedics of House Jorasco. You attempted to deceive the officers and medics to believe you were severely wounded and dying, but the officers quickly saw through the act. In a feat of swiftness and charm, you managed to board the Jorascan skycoach, persuading the pilot and medics to leave the officers of the Trust behind in order to escape the invisible 12 foot bandits that raided the ships. You found yourselves in the city of Vathirond, reunited with the rest of the party. Confronting Captain Fredderick d'Lyrander, you remembered what the Captain mentioned, that he was going to dock his skycoach at the nearby Lyrching Tower, a stone throw away from the crash site. Through intimidation and abusing his self-imposed guilt, you convinced the Captain to provide his ongoing ferry services at a discounted price. You also met Snorri, a dragon-marked dwarf of the House of Kundarak commissioned to retrieve the stolen artifact for his own purposes. At that time, you heard a man's scream for help coming from the gatehouse where you found guard bodies littering the watch tower and a trail of blood leading to the sewer systems. Bravely and confidently, you entered the gruesome tunnel to discover a mummified undead creature. Blinded by its encompassing sandstorms and weakened by the creature's sickening plagues, FangLi and Remy fell unconscious. Snorri managed to escape, magically sealing the exit path, sneaking back into the sewers through another entry and bravely rescuing the unconscious Fangli. But this heroic endeavor came not without the loss of Remy, whose body turned to dust. During all of this, perhaps you were resting in the tavern or on the other side of town, having arrived early and exhausted from striving against the pulling winds atop the airship, essentially jet lag, you find yourself at rest in beds that are surprisingly comfortable, catered by Unseen Servants, including bathing facilities per room, and enchanted spaces that easily lead to falling asleep.*

**“Calderus
demands The Soul Blade”**. The voice resonates with malice and evil-intent.

[https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/monstres.php?vo=mummy-lord](https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/monstres.php?vo=mummy-lord)

Following night (wherever they are): Blood-curling
scream at gatehouse.

*The door is jammed open by the body of one of the
guards lying on the floor. From a glance it looks as if his head had been caved
in with a single blow. Even with a mace it would have taken considerable
strength to inflict a wound like that. You can discern that if the attacker had been unarmed then he must have possessed
superhuman strength.*

*In the immediately adjacent room, you find another guard stuck some six
feet off the ground up against the wall with no apparent means of support. It takes you a few seconds to notice the strange deformity in his chest and a few
more to realise that the dead man was impaled on one of the sconces had held
the ever-burning torches that illuminated the area. The guardsman’s body was withered and leathery. The smell is horrendous, a mix of
rotting flesh and embalming fluid. At the other end of
the tunnel we were in Sterngate proper. You can see three roads heading off. As
I learnt the streets in Vathirond are broad but full of sharp turns, to
handicap invading forces that got through the wall. The houses are free
standing and the roads and alleys free of rubbish, both defensive measures
against the spread of fire.*

*A few feet from where you stand is the
top of a large, about three feet in diameter, hole in the ground. A few feet
further was a massive and heavy looking iron grill that had presumably once
covered it.*

- Erben exits the room, somewhat startled by whoever is walking the tavern's second-floor hallway. Erben instinctively acts to protect, dismissing others ("You should leave. The man seeks privacy at this time.") Roewyn inside the room, who is projecting his consciousness to the Astral realm, discussing with his dragon patron, Sur'kil, his discovery of the existence of a powerful artifact (either the Shadow Blade or the Dragon's Eye from Eyes of the Lich Queen).
    - *“The prophecy and my research point to the reality of Aridarastrixsauriv, my liege. As we feared, the artifact appears to be more than mere legend. Now, my studies have indicated the most likely location where it might be found.”*
    - *“However, there is also another force at play. Tracking a group of adventures that I had foreseen in my divinations, I have discovered the existence of a rare relic of the Great War being transported to Korth for reasons unbeknownst. This, I will have to look into, for I have not had the time to research.”*
- At the sound of the mummy's moaning and the gong-like ringing of the sewer's iron griddle, a man stands up, holding his halberd lazily, dragging it by the handle across the tavern and sighing. (Deadgrim)
- **3 iron ghouls + 7 beggar ghouls** enter the city, accompanied by phantom lights (1d6 healing at start of turn)
    - PCs board a Lightning Rail (roll to see whether the Rail is about to leave or just arrived)